“That tyranny today is embodied in the hyenas of the Daily Mail and the populist politicians both here and in the US, “ said Lord Lester, staunch campaigner for the removal of all crown powers. “I say make parliament the king.”
But it is precisely because the case is so important that the onslaught on the judges by the Mail, as well as the Murdoch press and Ukip, has been so extreme. Their attacks – made uglier because the judges cannot answer back – stem from the fear that if the supreme court upholds the earlier ruling, it might undermine the hard Brexit they wish for.
In a sense, these attacks have been no surprise – they are a continuation of the intemperate leave campaign’s stirring up of distrust of the liberal elite and its institutions. And the judges, though not all liberal, are certainly all part of the elite: with only one woman on the bench and no ethnic minorities, they have a long way to go to be truly representative.
Even so there is a wider context, because courts and judges are under attack around the world, as the populist surge spreads and accepted norms are discarded. Donald Trump plans to fill three potential vacancies in the supreme court with rightwing ideologues. And the international criminal court is being undermined by the desertion of a number of African countries, led by South Africa.
High on the Brexiteers’ complaints is that the judiciary is unaccountable. The Mail proposes that judges be elected, but this entirely misses the point of the British system, in which the judiciary, the third arm of government, must remain independent to enforce the rule of law without fear or favour.
This is not to say, however, that the judges can’t be accountable. In their own way they are. These are men and women who, as one lawyer put it, “deal in words” – analysing and weighing the words of earlier judges, and adapting their meaning for today. One could say therefore that they are answerable to judges past, to whose gowns were once cut from the same cloth and to whose words they owe a duty of care when considering or reproducing them – such as Sir Edward Coke, who in a 1610 case insisted: “The king hath no prerogative but that which the law of the land allows him.” Quoted in the high court judgment, Sir Edward will no doubt be heard again this week, as his guidance is sought by the supreme court.
The justices are embracing transparency as a way of being accountable too. It is now nearly 10 years since they left their home in the dingy committee rooms of the House of Lords to move into a rebranded supreme court building. This week’s hearing will be live-streamed on four channels, with an internal video link for those who cannot find a seat in the court itself. This openness may have increased the scrutiny of and hostility towards the judges themselves. Even so, transparency has been a good thing.
Though the attacks have been extraordinary and unprecedented, there are signs that the judges will not be cowed. Sitting “en banc” they have strength in numbers. They cannot be accused of fixing the result by selecting the most pro-European among them to hear the case. Mr Justice Lavender gave permission on Thursday for a judicial review case to be heard, saying that evidence of repeated failures to implement policies to prevent self-inflicted deaths at Woodhill could not be dismissed as “operational failures”.
It has also emerged that an independent monitoring board at Bedford prison, which has had four deaths so far this year, wrote “an urgent letter of concern” to the prisons minister about the “alarming rise in prisoners attempting to hang themselves” at the jail before its recent riot. They highlighted that staffing shortages were “beyond crisis point”.
An independent monitoring board report published on Monday into Bullingdon prison in Oxfordshire warns that inadequate staffing is also damaging morale and relationships with prisoners.
“The board is concerned about increasing difficulties in recruiting and retaining sufficient officers to maintain levels defined as acceptable by the prison service. It has also observed that indiscipline and violence have increased noticeably since staff cutbacks were implemented in 2013,” says the Bullingdon report.
The chancellor, Philip Hammond, confirmed in the autumn statement last week that an extra £555m over the next three years would be made available to fund prison safety measures, including the recruitment of 2,500 extra prison officers.
A Ministry of Justice spokesperson said that mental health in custody was taken extremely seriously: “Providing the right intervention and treatment is vital to improving the outcomes for people who are suffering and all prisons have established procedures in place to identify, manage and support people with mental health issues.
“But we recognise that more can be done. That is why have invested in specialist mental health training for prison officers, allocated more funding for prison safety and have launched a suicide and self-harm reduction project to address the increase in self-inflicted deaths and self-harm in our prisons.”
Labour to push for fairer access to the justice system
Constitutional lawyers and White House ethics counsellors from Democratic and Republican administrations have warned Donald Trump his presidency might be blocked by the electoral college if he does not give up ownership of at least some of his business empire.
“The brand is certainly a hotter brand than it was before,” Donald Trump told the New York Times on Wednesday, and his election victory buzz does indeed seem to have been good for business.
Since the surprise outcome of the 8 November vote, foreign diplomats have been flocking to the newest Trump hotel in Washington to hear sales pitches about the business and vie to book their delegations into its rooms overlooking Pennsylvania Avenue for the inauguration on 20 January.
Trump, meanwhile, used a meeting with a delegation of Brexit activists including his closest British ally, Nigel Farage, to urge them to oppose wind farms which he felt would spoil the view from one of his Scottish golf courses. He also took time out from selecting cabinet officials to meet his Indian business partners and pose for pictures with them, while the Philippines government announced it was appointing his business partner in Manila as its next ambassador to Washington.
A day after a phone conversation between President-elect Trump and Argentinian president Mauricio Macri, Trump’s Argentinian associate – who was reported to have organised the call – confidently predicted that construction would start next year on the planned Trump Tower Buenos Aires, to be completed by 2020.
The associate, Felipe Yaryura, seemed supremely confident that the zoning restrictions that had stalled the project for years would soon be swept away.
In his interview at the New York Times, Trump insisted he no longer cared about his business interests.
“My company is so unimportant to me relative to what I’m doing, ’cause I don’t need money, I don’t need anything,” he said. “The only thing that matters to me is running our country.”
Yet much of what he has said and done since winning the election suggests that Trump comes to the presidency in the spirit of a tycoon making a new acquisition, overseeing the merger of Trump Inc and America Inc – a merger in which it is far from clear which would be the senior partner.
“It clearly degrades the presidency,” said Ian Bremmer, a political scientist and president of the Eurasia Group, a global political risk research and consulting firm.
“It is going to undermine the legitimacy of the US around the world. Soft power has been about being able to project values. That already took a hit. It really comes to an end with this election.”
Although the president-elect claims to have handed the day-to-day running of the Trump Organization to some of his children, he has so far retained his ownership stake and those same children are sitting in on his meetings with foreign leaders. Ivanka Trump, for example, was in the room during the president-elect’s first meeting with a foreign leader, Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe.
A few moments after expressing indifference to the fate of his business, Trump claimed: “In theory, I could run my business perfectly, and then run the country perfectly.
“And there’s never been a case like this where somebody’s had, like, if you look at other people of wealth, they didn’t have this kind of asset and this kind of wealth, frankly. It’s just a different thing.”
The US has certainly never had a commander-in-chief like Trump. When the constitution was written, the founding fathers wrote the rules so that people like themselves, whom they expected to fill the presidency, could do so without having to sell off plantations or slaves.
The president is exempt from conflict-of-interest laws that constrain other office holders. The discovery of this loophole seems to have surprised and delighted Trump.
“As far as the potential conflict of interests,” Trump said, “the law is totally on my side, meaning, the president can’t have a conflict of interest.”
The remarks were reminiscent, for presidential historians at least, of an earlier president who claimed that “when the president does it, that means it is not illegal”.
It was an interpretation of executive power that did not work out well for the US, nor for the president in question, Richard Nixon.
Constitutional lawyers are now warning that Trump’s presidency is in danger of going the same way as Nixon’s before it even gets started. Some say that unless Trump takes urgent steps to fully divest himself from his business interests, he might not even enter the Oval Office as president.
Trump seems to have received only a partial legal briefing on his exposure. Although the conflict-of-interest clauses do have a loophole for presidents, there is no such loophole for the “emoluments clause”, Article I, Section 9 of the constitution, which prohibits public officials from taking payments “of any kind whatever from any king, prince or foreign state”.
“Trump was totally wrong when he said the conflict of interest doesn’t apply to me,” said Norman Eisen, a former ethics counsellor to the Obama administration. “It shows he doesn’t know the constitution.
“The most fundamental conflict clause in the US constitution is the prohibition on emoluments on payments, presents or other things of value being given to American political officials including the president.”
Eisen, now a fellow at the Brookings Institution, added: “Because of [Trump’s] international investments he gets these payments, presents and things of value and he’ll be in violation of the constitution by the moment he takes the oath of office.”
Before Trump can even take that oath, he will have to be elected by the electoral college, another legacy of the founding fathers.
Under the constitution, this year on 8 November Americans chose electors, who are usually party officials, to represent their states in the electoral college. It is now up to those 538 electors to choose the president, when the college votes on 19 December. “Faithless electors” have in the past gone against the wishes of those who chose them, but never in such numbers as to change the outcome of an election.
The electors are under more pressure than usual because although Trump won the majority of seats in the electoral college, he lost the nationwide popular vote to Hillary Clinton by 2m ballots. Some legal experts argue that the electoral college cannot approve a candidate like Trump, who does not fulfil the basic legal requirements to be president.
Harvard constitutional law professor Laurence Tribe said in an email that the “electors who are to cast their votes for president on 19 December not as automatons but in light of constitutional constraints and principles cannot in good conscience vote for Donald Trump as president of the United States unless he fully divests himself of economic interests dependent on the fortunes, for good or ill, of the private Trump empire”.
That view is not restricted to academics and Democrats. Richard Painter, George W Bush’s chief ethics counsel, agrees that without a major reconfiguration of the Trump Organization, the president-elect is heading for a constitutional collision with the electoral college.
“The important thing for the electoral college is to ensure that he technically complies with the constitution,” Painter told the Observer. “This is just as important as the birth certificate. He should not be currently on the payroll of foreign governments.
“So he’ll have to provide assurance to the electoral college that he’s not himself going to be getting money from foreign governments that would violate the emoluments clause.”
It is implausible that Trump and his lawyers could offer such assurances without completely severing his links with his business operation. His empire has been built in many countries where the line between public and private ownership is thin and blurred. According to a count by the Washington Post, at least 111 Trump companies have done business in 18 countries in South America, Asia and the Middle East.
There are two Trump Towers in Turkey. During the campaign, Trump registered eight companies in Saudi Arabia, according to the Post. There is a hotel being built under the Trump name in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan. All these countries have authoritarian leaders, whom Trump has praised in recent years.
Over and above these entanglements, Trump has diplomats on foreign government expenses rushing to check into his hotels; he also has loans from state-owned banks. It is impossible to gauge the extent of his reliance on foreign governments without full disclosure of his business dealings and the publication of his tax returns, which he has thus far resisted.
Painter said the president-elect’s lawyers could perhaps construct a technical fix that ensured that any income from foreign governments was channelled into a separate corporation, under the ownership of his children.
Such a legal tweak might get Trump past the electoral college and into the Oval Office on schedule on 20 January, but it is hard to imagine it would dispel the cloud of suspicion that would hang over a Trump White House.
“It is catastrophic because you have a man coming to the presidency with a vast network of business interests, domestic and international, that will conflict, clash, collide, with his obligations to pursue the public interest,” Eisen said.
“Foreign policy is where conflict of interest, between the public and private interest, is sharpest because he has these projects all over the world. We’ll never know when he favours an ally or opposes an adversary whether he’s doing it for the sake of America’s national interest or his pocket book.”
Eisen and Painter called on the Trump transition team to take urgent steps to address the problem, before it triggers a constitutional crisis. They recommended he sell all his business holdings and put the proceeds in a blind trust, the composition of which would remain unknown to him, as his predecessors have done for the past four decades. Painter offered his advice to the Trump circle as a fellow Republican, but has not received any response.
At his meeting with the New York Times, Trump said he was looking at changes he might make, but seemed very reluctant to sell off his empire.
“That’s a very hard thing to do … because I have real estate. I have real estate all over the world, which now people are understanding,” he said. “It really is big, it’s diverse, it’s all over the world. It’s a great company with great assets.
“I think that, you know, selling real estate isn’t like selling stock. Selling real estate is much different, it’s in a much different world.”
Trump did not make clear why owning property made it harder to sell his stake but his resistance to such a move was apparent.
“His view is that the voters know about this and and they are OK with it,” said Robert Weissman, president of the Public Citizen watchdog group.
“But it is absolutely contradictory to his core message he was going to sweep away the corruption in Washington and all the deal-making.”
In 2020, voters will get an opportunity to decide whether Trump has delivered on that promise. Weissman thinks the threat of impeachment before then is remote, as that is a decision of the House of Representatives, where there is a solid Republican majority.
The GOP majority is much slimmer in the Senate, however, and there Trump has many enemies in Republican ranks. Although the Senate cannot initiate impeachment, it can hold hearings, summon witnesses and demand documents. It could turn a Trump presidency into one long financial scandal.
“He will not be able to get away with it for very long,” Eisen said. “This is a recipe for scandal. This has happened with every president, Democrat like Bill Clinton and Republican like Richard Nixon.
“When you get into a scandal, your old friends melt away. It’s an incredibly perilous situation.”
Labour to push for fairer access to the justice system
The year 2016 seems to have provided a helping hand for the increasing discrimination against Indonesia’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender communities. The constitutional court is currently mulling over a petition to revise the criminal code to make intercourse between same-sex couples illegal.
The conservative Islamic group driving the petition, Family Love Alliance (Aliansi Cinta Keluarga), argues that the country’s current laws lean too heavily towards western values, which they see as at odds with ours in Indonesia. Patrialis Akbar, one of the judges in the constitutional court, has said: “Our freedom is limited by moral values as well as religious values … We’re not a secular country – this country acknowledges religion.”
Indonesia’s communication and information ministry, with recommendations from the national police, religious affairs ministry and the Islamic group Majelis Ulama Indonesia (who issued a fatwa [a ruling on a point of Islamic law] against LGBT practices in 2014), has plans to ban gay dating apps such as Grindr. This comes just months after gay-themed emoji and stickers were removed from a popular messaging app in the country.
This year alone, government officials have said that there is “no room” in Indonesia for the LGBT movement, that it is worse than a nuclear bomb, and that LGBT people should be barred from university campuses. In February, Vice President Jusuf Kalla asked the United Nations Development Programme to not finance LGBT community organisations in the country. In the same month, the Indonesian Psychiatrists Association classified being LGBT as a “mental disorder” that should be “cured”. You get the picture.
But the most damning assessment further underscoring the pervading conservatism which restricts, if not outright threatens, the lives of LGBT communities here came in August. Human Rights Watch released a 91-page report on the matter, where you can read a story of a trans person, known here as a waria (a portmanteau of the Indonesian words for woman and man) in the city of Yogyakarta who was violently attacked in February by seven men while walking home.
You’ll also read about the hostile closure of an Islamic academy (madrasa) for transgender women in the same city – a place that had become a vital refuge to many.
These discriminatory acts have been abetted by politicians and lawmakers in Indonesia by way of rejoinders, policies or equally-punishing silence.
Last month, however, Indonesia’s president, Joko Widodo, vowed to protect any threatened minorities in an interview with the BBC. When asked about what he thought about the hearings in the constitutional court, he said he didn’t feel the need to change the law, and that the police must protect groups from violence. “There should be no discrimination against anyone,” he said.
The president’s statement, however, is not backed up by laws ensuring equal rights for LGBT people in Indonesia. In the deliberations over the United Nations’ New Urban Agenda signed last month at Habitat III, Indonesia and 16 other countries requested the removal of LGBTQ individuals in the list of “most vulnerable” groups that should not be discriminated against.
As Indonesia’s most populous and diverse city, Jakarta is home to many LGBT advocacy and community groups, there’s more joy than sorrow. I feel accepted among my friends and they can comfort me since we have the same vision.
In some ways, Jakarta is inclusive – if we’re talking about mindsets and the character of a metropolitan society, which I think leans towards indifference. When people interact with me, they don’t really care and they talk to me without mentioning sexual orientation.
Some friends tell me that although they’re okay with having LGBT acquaintances, they still don’t want their children to be LGBT. Don’t expect same-sex public displays of affection to be the norm anytime soon.
I’m allowed to express myself, but not to voice an opinion or to explain my thoughts about whether gay rights are human rights. Aren’t gay rights the same as the rights to be free? To earn an honest living? To live without being discriminated against?
It has nothing to do with “western” or “eastern” values whatsoever. We have all wanted those rights for so long in Indonesia – it’s just that since our struggle is relatively new, it’s regarded as something unusual, ie something western. We just want to be accepted and acknowledged by others. We want to express ourselves freely without judgment or discrimination.
I am optimistic about our future. Eventually, the way people think will change, they’ll be more open-minded. It takes time for things to change, and it’s not easy, but I’m glad I’m part of it. I think that’s my hope and my fear for the future: to have the strength to carry on.
Being a woman and identifying as bisexual has meant I get asked a lot of insensitive questions (“Why don’t you just like guys only?”) as well as people telling me that it’s “just a phase”.
Jakarta felt safe compared to other places in Indonesia until earlier this year when the spotlight was cast on the LGBT community. Suddenly everyone seemed to despise us, when before they didn’t care about our existence at all. I constantly feel like I don’t belong and afraid, like somebody is going to hunt me down for loving someone that is of the same gender.
But being a metropolitan city with a huge population of all kinds of people, there’s a lot of strong LGBT communities, even one that aims to educate university students: SGRC Indonesia (Support Group and Resource Centre on Sexuality Studies).
When the higher education minister said that LGBT people should be barred from university campuses I felt betrayed.
I just hope at the very least that the government doesn’t pass the bill to criminalise LGBT relationships. I also hope that Indonesians – or at least the ones in Jakarta – will slowly realise that we have a right to live as they do, and stop hating us and start accepting us as another part of the super-diverse Jakarta.
In Indonesia’s LGBT communities we’re talking more about SOGIEB (sexual orientation, gender identity, expression and body) as an expanded way of addressing issues of personal freedom. I was a part of a SOGIEB-themed film festival in Jakarta, which we had to relocate and rename due to the fear of anticipated backlash.
I guess this is what living as a queer person is like in Jakarta: we always have to be careful not to rub people the wrong way. In the long run, what we ultimately wish for is integration – not just tolerance or acceptance.
To get there, however, takes time, struggle and hours of uncertainty because it boils down to the simple fact that Indonesians, as much as we enjoy sex to the point of obsession, are severely lacking in sex education itself.
On a personal level, I would like to simply be able to walk by myself, or hand in hand with my boyfriend in public without it being a magnet for attention, or even a political act. I don’t feel threatened when I walk on the streets, but who’s to say I won’t someday? And that’s one of my biggest fears going forward: that LGBT Indonesians are stripped of our basic rights to exist.
There is a lot of intersectionality between the LGBT rights movement, the women’s rights movement and the human rights movement. If more people under these movements join forces then we all could make some strides. I think we are making some strides already.
Instead of chalking everything up to “LGBT”, why not concentrate on SOGIEB education? I think that’s my hope for the future: that sex education about these issues becomes a priority.
In my view, we simply need to be kinder to one another.
Some names have been changed. Additional reporting by Francesca Perry
When Christopher Seddon popped into a Waitrose store last May on behalf of his housebound 89-year-old mother, he was only planning to buy a few items to get her through the week. After paying, he was stunned when two policemen seized and handcuffed him in front of watching shoppers. He was then forced to spend six hours in a cell at the local police station before being charged with stealing £102-worth of meat.
Over the next three months Seddon, a published author who lives in north London, says he spent £9,600 on legal fees and expert reports to prove that it was a case of mistaken identity and clear his name. Eventually the case against him was dropped, and Waitrose offered £500 to say sorry because he is a “valued customer” – but he says the incident has left him thousands of pounds out of pocket and he describes the way he was treated as “nothing short of scandalous”.
Seddon’s nightmare began when he made his twice-weekly visit to see his housebound mother who lives alone near the Waitrose store in Chesham, Bucks. Each week he shops for her, but as he left the store on that fateful Saturday afternoon he was confronted by two police officers. “They seized me, then handcuffed me with my arms behind my back, stating that they were arresting me on suspicion of shoplifting 17 days earlier, in spite of the fact that on that day I hadn’t even been in Chesham. The security guard thrust a mobile phone in my face [with a CCTV still on it] and screamed ‘do you deny this is you?’ at me. All this was going on in front of dozens of shoppers.”
He says he was not allowed to call his mother, who he knew would be distressed when he inexplicably failed to return. He was held at Aylesbury police station for more than six hours.
“Despite the nightmare of the situation I assumed that I could clear up what was obviously a case of mistaken identity – but I was wrong. When I was eventually questioned, I was shown CCTV footage from the afternoon of 11 May showing a bald male aged about 60 concealing £100 of meat products in a bag and leaving without paying. I was told that I had been identified as the offender by the security guard from a CCTV still he had downloaded to his mobile. But on that day I was working on a book at my north London flat and, ironically, visited the Waitrose store on the Holloway Road.”
In a statement given to the police after Seddon’s arrest, the security guard claimed Seddon had also visited the Chesham store just a few days earlier and become nervous when he saw he was being watched. He said he then saw Seddon run from the store.
Seddon believes the police were greatly influenced by this claim. He says the CCTV evidence, not available at the time of his arrest, shows that while he was in the store at that time, it did not show him running away.
“I had come into the store for a bacon and egg sandwich for lunch, saw that there were none on the shelves and decided to go to Sainsbury’s instead. I left at a normal pace and never noticed the security guard. I even complained about the lack of bacon and egg sandwiches on Twitter. But the police believed the security guard’s account of me running from the store, as well as his claim that I was the man shown on CCTV stealing meat products, and charged me with the earlier theft.”
As a result, Seddon says he was forced to hire first a solicitor and then a barrister at a cost of £6,000 plus VAT. Knowing that he had been in London when the theft took place, but living alone, he had to employ a mobile phone expert to provide evidence to that effect. He also employed a CCTV specialist, John Kennedy, who made his name in the Jamie Bulger case in which CCTV footage was central to the conviction of the boys who abducted him.
Kennedy’s report states clearly that Seddon was not the person who had stolen the meat, and that the security guard’s claim that Seddon had run from the store was not true. It lists several key differences in the look of the two men, and even notes that their jackets were of different colours, contrary to what the guard told police. The expert report suggested that the photo of the thief on the security guard’s mobile phone was distorted in the act of downloading it. The image was compressed and the aspect ratio changed as a result, it said.
After Seddon had paid for all this, the case was dropped the day before it was due to be heard at High Wycombe magistrates court on the instruction of the Crown Prosecution Service. But Seddon says he has since been told by his solicitor that he will recoup no more than 20%-30% of his costs, leaving him substantially out of pocket. “Having cleared my name I approached Waitrose with my expert report, naively thinking that it would be horrified by what had happened and would offer me compensation for the inconvenience, distress and financial loss, as well as take urgent steps to ensure that such an incident could not be repeated,” he says.
Instead, he says the supermarket spent two months fobbing him off before concluding that its security guard had done nothing wrong.
“They offered me a derisory £500 as a ‘goodwill’ gesture to a ‘valued customer’. Their emails throughout were headed ‘Waitrose customer feedback’ as if the whole affair was of no more consequence than an unsatisfactory purchase from the bakery. If a security guard cannot distinguish between running and walking then it is a matter of significant public concern that they continue to be employed as a security guard,” he says.
A spokesman for Waitrose declined to offer an explanation as to what had happened. Instead, he pointed us towards Thames Valley police. “We are very sorry to hear of the distress Mr Seddon has experienced. You will need to speak to the Thames Valley police press office about the decisions taken. We are continuing our conversations with Mr Seddon and the third-party security company with whom we work so, as you will appreciate, it would not be appropriate for us to comment further at this stage.”
Seddon says questions remain as to why he was treated so badly. At a meeting last week with Thames Valley police, which is still investigating his complaint against the force, Seddon says he was told by a long-serving officer that he had not ever heard of a comparable incident.
Seddon is still furious at his treatment at the hand of the store, and is considering legal action. “If Waitrose will not accept responsibility, then sooner or later it will happen again to somebody else. For my part, I would have been better off accepting a police caution for a crime that I did not commit and paying Waitrose for £100 of meat products that somebody else stole. It is morally repugnant that I should be left thousands of pounds out of pocket when I have done nothing wrong,” he says.
Thames Valley Police said that as it had received a complaint in relation to this investigation it would be inappropriate to comment further.
Christopher Seddon’s treatment at the hands of both Waitrose and the police shows a gap in the law: a completely innocent person can be arrested and prosecuted and may not be entitled to any compensation, not even all of his legal costs, writes barrister Richard Colbey.
When police make an arrest they are not liable for the consequences if they act on reasonable suspicion. There are sound public policy reasons why they should be free to do their job without worrying too much about the consequences, so long as they behave reasonably. 
Here the report by the security staff gave them that suspicion and meant they were duty-bound to question Seddon, and entitled to arrest him. Marching him away in handcuffs was unnecessary and apparently deplored by a more mature police officer, but it was not unlawful.
Had the security guard effected the arrest the situation would have been different. There is not the same public interest in “citizens’ arrests”, and civilians have no protection if they arrest an innocent person, however reasonable the suspicion.
In 1992 a Marina Davidson was accused, wrongly, of stealing from Woolworths in Bangor. The court of appeal said that a security guard, and hence a Woolworths employee, could only be liable for an arrest if it was effected by the police – ie, if they had given some direction or made a direct request or encouragement that the arrest should be made. There the court of appeal decided that the store detective had merely made a report – but the guard in Seddon’s­ case may have overstepped the mark. 
Also it is possible that Seddon could claim slander, but that is a notoriously difficult and expensive cause of action. He would have to show the guard acted maliciously as, otherwise, what the guard said to the police would be privileged and also that he suffered “serious harm” – a somewhat vague statutory hurdle introduced in 2014 to discourage the proliferation of defamation claims.
A person acquitted of a crime will usually be able to recover his costs from public funds, but only at fairly derisory legal aid rates. These will be nothing like £10,000 even for a trial that goes ahead, and are typically hundreds, rather than thousands, of pounds. 
The Law Society advises solicitors to warn clients where they are incurring costs that are unlikely to be recoverable, and if Seddon’s solicitors had not given such advice then it could have taken a hit on much of the difference between its bill and the amount recovered.
• Update: Christopher Seddon has confirmed that his solicitors did advise him that he may not be able to recover all his legal costs of defending himself. The barrister’s view was amended on 28 November 2016 to clarify this point.
Labour to push for fairer access to the justice system
Comedian Eddie Izzard defended himself against a man who shouted homophobic abuse at him as a stand against “thousands of years of transgender people being aggressively attacked”, a court has heard.
Jamie Penny threatened to “do” the 54-year-old’s house after an altercation in Pimlico, central London.
A month later Penny, 24, shouted to Izzard that he was a “fucking poofter” after seeing him in a street nearby.
Penny, who is autistic, was found guilty of two counts of using threatening and abusive words or behaviour with intent to cause harassment, alarm or distress. He also admitted damaging a police cell after he was arrested.
Giving evidence at the trial, Izzard said he stood up to him and swore back because he had faced years of abuse for being a transgender man.
He told Hammersmith magistrates court: “It is something I do as a transgender man. Over years people have said very nasty things to me.
“I prefer to stand my ground. I do stand up for my rights and other people’s rights.”
The court heard that on 3 April Izzard had been moving bags by his vintage car outside his Pimlico home when he heard an altercation at a nearby pub, before two men approached him.
Izzard told the court one suddenly leaned close to his face and told him: “You should give me a ride in your car.”
The man was aggressive so Izzard said he told him he would “never have a ride in my car”, before a second man, Penny, told him: “Izzard, we are going to do your house when you are away.”
The comedian told the court: “It was totally aggressive. It had gone up into a verbal attack. He was walking away but shouting aggressively at me.” He told the court the incident had made him feel “very edgy”, and that he shouted back at him, telling him he was a “fucking idiot” and to “fuck off”.
Izzard said: “I was thrown because it had escalated. For hundreds of thousands of years transgender people have been aggressively attacked.
“I just thought, it is not going to happen – I am going to attack back with words.”
The court heard that a month later, on 4 May, Izzard was walking near Victoria station towards his house when he heard someone shout, “you’re a fucking poofter” from the other side of the road.
Asked if he recognised the man as Penny, Izzard said: “I knew it was the same guy who had shouted abuse at me, I am 100% sure.” 
Izzard told the court he hurled abuse back at him, saying: “I don’t run and hide, I stand my ground.”
Izzard told magistrates: “I am tough, I have run marathons, I wanted to stand up for myself otherwise you become a victim.”
He also told the court that he had been given Penny’s name by people at the pub near where he had first been abused, but had only decided to tell police after the second incident.
Under questioning, Penny said it was his friend who had threatened to “do” over Izzard’s house – and that the comedian had sneered at the pair, “talking to us like we are nothing”.
He said he did not even know Izzard at first, only looking him up online later after his friend told him he was a celebrity. 
On the second occasion, he said he had seen Izzard harassing a black man driving a Bentley, claiming the comedian had looked intoxicated, and had told him to leave the man alone before telling him to “go to hell”, denying he had called him a “poofter”.
And when Izzard told the court about the homophobic abuse, Penny said: “You’re not gay, why would I shout homophobic abuse at you if you’re not gay?” before blowing him a kiss from the dock. 
Magistrates said Penny, who the court heard has previous convictions for assault and possession of cannabis, would be given a restraining order and have to pay costs and compensation.
He was also ordered not to contact Izzard. Penny was bailed until 30 November when he will be sentenced at Westminster magistrates court.
Scotland Yard has adopted measures to increase knowledge of chemsex crime in the gay community after the police watchdog launched an investigation into “missed opportunities” to catch the serial killer Stephen Port.
In the wake of Port’s conviction, frontline officers were undergoing special training to deal with rape and sex crimes against males.
The measures were announced on Friday as the family of Jack Taylor, Port’s final victim, claimed their concerns over the initial investigation went unheeded because he had been dismissed as “a gay and a druggie and that was it”.
Port, 41, was given a whole life sentence without release for the murders of four gay men: Anthony Walgate, 23, Gabriel Kovari, 22, Daniel Whitworth, 21, and Taylor, 25. Port had surreptitiously given them fatal doses of the drug GHB to satisfy his fetish for sex with drugged, unconscious boyish-looking males.
Cdr Stuart Cundy, of the Met’s specialist crime and operations command, said the measures were “to enhance the knowledge and understanding of our officers about drugs-facilitated sexual assault, or sexual assault following chemsex”.
Frontline and specialist officers who investigated these offences were being trained with the help of the anti-violence charity Galop and other LGBT organisations. A toolkit and a checklist document had been created to provide guidance for officers on how best to respond to allegations.
A pilot study was launched by the Met in September to increase knowledge of the kind of drugs used to facilitate the sexual assault of men, Cundy said. Victims were being asked to provide a urine sample to test for GHB – also known as G or liquid ecstasy – which is the drug most commonly used in such cases.
As part of the study, tests for GHB were also being carried out on males who had died and there was evidence of sexual assault or the death was unexplained, he said.
The Met has already announced it is reviewing the deaths from GHB poisoning of 58 people in London over the last four years as a result of the Port case.
An anaesthetic, GHB is popular on the dance and club scene. At low doses, it is reported to produce euphoria, lowering social inhibition and increasing libido. At higher doses, euphoria gives way to sedation. Still larger doses can induce coma. In some cases, death can arise as a result of respiratory depression or the inhalation of vomit.
The Met has faced criticism in the past over its handling of the murders of members of the LGBT community. In 2007, a review of 10 murders of gay men or transgender people said in some cases police inquiries were hampered by a lack of knowledge, reliance on unfounded stereotypes and personal prejudices.
The report, written by the independent Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender advisory group, did acknowledge the force had substantially improved its dealings with the communities, but said more radical steps were needed.
Investigations of high-profile cases to have attracted criticism in the past include those of the serial killers Dennis Nilsen, Michael Lupo and Colin Ireland.
Hamlet will go on trial this weekend for murder, treason and regicide before an appeal court judge on a stage in the West End of London.
The aim of cross-examining Shakespeare’s most famous character about the fatal stabbing of Polonius is to deliver a fundraising performance for schools on the 400th anniversary of the playwright’s death.
The cast combines prominent lawyers with leading actors, including the Royal Shakespeare Company’s John Heffernan as Hamlet, Meera Syal as Gertrude and Tom Conti as Claudius.
The stand-up comedian Lee Mack takes the part of the Player King and the comedian and actor Hugh Dennis is the jury foreman, whose role is to return the verdict given by the entire audience.
Lady Justice Hallett, a court of appeal judge, will conduct the trial and four QCs, John Kelsey-Fry, Jonathan Laidlaw, Shaheed Fatima and Ian Winter, will lead the interrogation, demonstrating the similarity in skills required onstage and in the courtroom.
Money raised by the Sunday night performance at Wyndham’s theatre will be donated to the Shakespeare Schools festival.
In the play, the Prince of Denmark is being held in custody contemplating a life behind bars. Kelsey-Fry, a sought-after defence silk, will argue for Hamlet’s acquittal.
The show follows a successful mock trial of Macbeth that was staged last year and returned a surprise verdict of not guilty on the Scottish usurper.
Hallett said mock trial projects stimulated an interest in the law and helped young students develop their talents. “I relish the opportunity to combine my two loves of the law and the theatre on the West End stage and will ensure Hamlet gets a fair trial,” she said.
Syal, star of the BBC’s The Kumars at No 42 and Goodness Gracious Me, said she was “very proud to be supporting the Shakespeare Schools Foundation although a little nervous about the cross-examination”.
An “independent inspectorate” should be created to restore minimum standards of access to justice and establish equality within the courts, according to a report commissioned by Jeremy Corbyn and the Labour party leadership.
The interim study by the Bach Commission, published on Friday, acknowledges that deep cuts to legal aid imposed by past governments cannot be entirely reversed in the current financial climate.
Past economies, particularly the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Prosecution of Offenders Act 2012 (Laspo), it says, have reduced the justice system to a state of crisis with hundreds of thousands of people being deprived of the legal support.
The number of not-for-profit legal advice centres has fallen from 3,226 in 2005 to 1,462 over the past decade, exceptional case funding for legal aid fails to support those in desperate need and high court fees are deterring claimants pursuing justice in employment tribunals and the courts, the report notes. Since 2010, the annual legal aid budget has fallen from £2.1bn to £1.6bn.
While not formally adopted as Labour policy, the report, overseen by the former justice minister Lord Bach, was commissioned by Jeremy Corbyn and the previous shadow justice secretary, Lord Falconer. The Fabian Society has provided support. Other commissioners and advisers include Sir Henry Brooke, a former court of appeal judge, Julie Bishop, director of the UK law centres network, and John Cooper QC.
Aimed at developing future policy for the Labour party, the authors hope to build a broad consensus for improving access to the courts. The report quotes the current lord chief justice, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, as saying: “Our justice system has become unaffordable to most.”
The final study is due to be published next summer before Labour’s conference. It is being crowd-funded – an initiative increasingly used by claimants for bringing legal challenges that might formerly have been paid for by legal aid.
“Cuts to legal aid have created a two-tier justice system in which the poorest go without representation or advice,” the report says. “Our commission understands the economic and political imperative to control public spending, and we do not simply propose to repeal Laspo in its entirety.
“Instead, the commission will establish a set of minimum standards for access to justice, and explore policy options in a number of key areas to make those standards realisable.”
The report outlines six “core problems” in the justice system: loss of legal aid for housing, welfare, debt, immigration, medical negligence and family law cases; failure of the exceptional case funding scheme; lack of public legal education; mass closures of legal advice centres; higher court fees; excessive bureaucracy in the Legal Aid Agency; and antiquated technology.
On its main policy recommendations, the commission says it will develop “minimum standards for access to justice to be enshrined clearly in law – which could include legal aid for all those who need it, equality of arms [so that both sides are represented in a case], sufficient and comprehensive legal education, and the availability of accessible technologies of triage.”
An independent inspectorate, it says, “will consider the enforcement of these standards” in the same way that there is already a chief inspector of prisons. “The commission will consider whether there should be a chief inspector of the justice system to hold government to account,” it adds.
Legal aid was also cut under the last Labour government. Lord Bach, chair of the commission, said: “Our interim report shows that our justice system is creaking at the seams. The LASPO cuts have produced a crisis in the justice system and the poorest in our society can no longer receive the legal support they require.
“This unacceptable state of affairs needs challenging and changing. This report is the starting point in our ongoing work to redesign the justice system so that it works for all. The commission intends now to turn to working through the policy solutions to fix this crisis.”
Richard Burgon, shadow secretary of state for justice and shadow lord Chancellor, endorsed the findings, saying: “Since 2010, the Conservatives have implemented unprecedented cuts to legal aid, putting justice beyond the reach of thousands.
“There is much of substance in the report, which will be welcome to all those who value the principle of access to justice. I am particularly excited by the idea of enshrining in law a minimum standard for access to justice.
“A basic threshold for access to justice has the potential to be a historic advance in our law which could improve the lives of thousands.” 
A Ministry of Justice spokesperson said: “We have a world-leading legal system and last year spent more than £1.5bn on legal aid.
“We must ensure legal aid is sustainable and fair – both for those who need it and the taxpayer who pays for it. That is why we have made sure support remains available to the most vulnerable and in the most serious cases.
“We have committed to carrying out a post-implementation review of the civil legal aid changes and an announcement on this will be made in due course.”
The failure of the independent inquiry into child abuse to explain how it investigated allegations of sexual assault on its premises has undermined its credibility, a former senior lawyer on the investigation has said.
Hugh Davies QC said in a letter published by the home affairs select committee that the inquiry’s leadership must provide a clear public explanation of what the allegations were, how they were investigated and what has been done to identify and address future risks.
Davies was the only lawyer who commented publicly on the events that have rocked the national inquiry over the past two months, following a request from the committee for written evidence on the departure of a series of high-ranking legal experts.
“It is in the public interest that [the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse] IICSA succeeds,” Davies said, and greater clarity on the allegations of sexual assault at the inquiry’s London headquarters would promote the chances of that.
All the other lawyers who have left, including the former lead counsel Ben Emmerson QC, his deputy, Elizabeth Prochaska, and another counsel, Toby Fisher, cited confidentiality to the inquiry as a reason not to comment to MPs. The chair of the inquiry, Prof Alexis Jay, refused to waive that confidentiality.
Emmerson was suspended in September and then resigned. Two weeks earlier, Prochaska left the inquiry. Since then, a number of other lawyers have left.
Davies, who left the inquiry in 2015, said the lack of any explanation about allegations made by a junior member of staff against Emmerson left “an impression that, rather than investigating … IICSA has reached a de facto compromise agreement … and ended the investigation”.
The committee report said the allegations involved claims that Emmerson sexually assaulted an inquiry worker in a lift. He denies the allegations.
Davies’ testimony was released as MPs on the committee published a critical report on the troubled investigation, and called for robust action to deal with the allegations and restore public confidence in the inquiry.
Yvette Cooper, the chair of the committee, said the inquiry’s response had been “wholly inadequate”. Robust action was needed to restore public confidence, including the appointment of an external person to investigate the case.
“Given that the inquiry was set up to challenge institutions for covering up internal problems or ignoring abuses of power, it is crucial that it shows it has a robust and transparent approach to dealing with problems of its own,” she said.
Cooper stopped short of supporting calls from fellow Labour MP Chuka Umunna for Jay to step down in favour of a senior judge, but, she said, “the inquiry needs to get back on track … it is too important to be sunk by problems … urgent action is needed to sort them out.”
She criticised delays in setting up the Truth Project and holding public hearings, which showed a “significant weakness” in engaging with survivors.
Cooper called for the inquiry to appoint a new counsel as a priority and to consider splitting its work into two strands; a forensic, lawyer-led investigation to establish the truth about past institutional abuse, and a second strand looking at thematic issues around child protection.
The report was published as a person from the survivors panel, which was set up as part of the inquiry, called for it to be allowed to get on with its job. Chris Tuck said she had suffered vicious trolling on social media by some survivors that was hard not to take personally. “The few people who want this inquiry disbanded are robbing the victims and survivors … of the opportunity to finally have their voices heard,” she said.
Davies said that despite confidentiality issues he was able to comment in the interests of transparency on the allegations of bullying and sexual assault matters that had been in the public domain.
When taken together, they left a negative impression, which was compounded by unofficial briefings from inquiry sources in the media that undermined the alleged victim’s account.
“I would criticise any failure by an institution to act, and IICSA must expect to be judged by the same standards it will doubtless set for others,” he said.
“IICSA will investigate and make findings on institutions that have put reputational advantage ahead of a duty to investigate, including the use of compromise agreements with the subject of disclosure. If that is what has occurred here, the reputational harm to IICSA is obvious. If it is not, it is in IICSA’s interests to correct this impression.”
Any disclosure of bullying or sexual assault relating to the conduct of a senior member of staff towards a more junior employee, whether it was a formal complaint or not, amounted to abuse of power, he wrote.
“History demonstrates that, where bullying or other abuse reflects an imbalance of power between individuals, it is more likely to be repeated,” he added.
Jay said in a statement: “We recognise that the past few months have been difficult for the inquiry, and for the victims and survivors who have placed their trust in it. I am personally sorry for any unnecessary anxiety the inquiry may have caused to victims and survivors during this transitional period.”
She said the inquiry would appoint an external senior legal figure to review some of the issues raised in the committee’s report.
Relatives of Woodhill prisoners who took their own life in jail have launched a judicial review, calling for action over safety procedures at the prison, which this year recorded the highest number and highest rate of self-inflicted deaths across the entire prison estate.
There have been 17 suicides at the high-security Woodhill prison, in Milton Keynes, since May 2013, and at least six this year, a rate of about one every 45 days.
Despite guidance from coroner reports and from the official body that investigates deaths in custody, the families claim the prison has failed to implement basic preventative measures, according to legal papers.
The claimants hope their legal challenge will secure a high court order compelling the Ministry of Justice and the prison’s governor to put in place measures to reduce the risk of self-inflicted deaths. These measures are already required by law, but the claimants believe the prison has not managed to get staff to follow the guidance.
A high court judge granted permission on Thursday for the judicial application to proceed.
Mr Justice Lavender rejected a MoJ submission saying that appropriate steps had been taken at the prison to prevent further deaths and that the families’ claim was misconceived and unarguable.
The judge said that reports on the prison revealed “repeated failure, despite earlier recommendations, to implement applicable policies”. He said this could not be dismissed as operational failures.
Pearl Scarfe and Julie Barber, the mother and sister of Ian Brown, who took his life in his cell in Woodhill on 19 July 2015, have brought the claim, together with Jamie Blyde, the brother of Daniel Dunkley, who died on 2 August 2016, four days after he was found hanging in his cell.
The high rate of suicides at Woodhill come at a time of rising deaths inside prisons nationally. In the 12 months to June 2016, there were 105 apparently self-inflicted deaths, a 28% increase over that period, and when taken together with homicides inside prisons this was the highest level for 25 years, according to MoJ figures cited in the legal challenge. The number of incidents of self -harm also rose by 27%, to its highest level since records began, over the same period.
Jo Eggleton, partner at the legal firm Deighton Pierce Glynn, who represents the families of nine of the 17 people who have died since May 2013, said: “This case is borne out of the families’ desperation. They don’t want another family to go through this and it absolutely crushes them when they hear that another one has. They have been through every legal avenue they can – there have been inquests and coroner recommendations and nothing has changed. It happens again and again in very similar circumstances.
“What’s missing is the detail of what the prison is doing. But when there are more deaths in similar circumstances it is hard to believe they are doing enough.”
The judicial review seeks to address the “exceptionally high current rate of self-inflicted deaths at HMP Woodhill”. The papers state: “There is no mystery about what needs to be done; the problem is that the defendants are not doing it.”
The safety procedures that need to be taken to reduce the risk of deaths are already set out in MoJ policy and are mandatory. But the families argue thatit is clear from investigations by the prison and probation ombudsman, made each time someone dies in prison, that the governor had “failed to put in place appropriate general measures for the protection of inmates from suicide”. In one coroner’s report, there was clear frustration at the prison’s failure to implement their recommendations.
The report says: “There needs to be an urgent review as to why the necessary measures to prevent suicides from recently admitted prisoners have not been implemented.”
The summary of the families’ case states: “The reports identify similar failings occurring in case after case. They include repeated failures to comply with the requirements of national policy on suicide and on emergency response.”
One of the key recommendations is that the governor should ensure that there are full suicide risk assessments for newly arrived prisoners. The legal papers state that in seven in nine deaths where an inquest was heard, there was no compliance with the regulations setting out how prisons should respond to a medical emergency.
Deborah Coles, director of the charity INQUEST, welcomed the legal challenge. “The shocking failure of HMP Woodhill to act on a body of recommendations exposes the absence of a robust system to ensure that action is taken. Repeated calls for urgent change are ignored and deaths continue.”
An MOJ spokesperson said: “This matter is the subject of ongoing legal proceedings, so it would be inappropriate to comment further at this stage.”
Theoretically, yes. Theresa May is adamant that Brexit will go ahead when she triggers article 50 before the end of March, and has insisted there will be no second referendum. At the moment it is verging on political heresy to say the UK should not proceed with leaving the EU, because that was the democratic outcome of the referendum. However, there was nothing binding about the vote and no legal obligation for the government to pursue Brexit.
The most straightforward technical way of stopping Brexit is to not trigger article 50, which fires the starting gun on two years of negotiations with the EU. After this point, there are conflicting legal views on whether it would be possible to rescind notification that Britain wants to leave. Some, such as Donald Tusk, the EU council president, believe the UK could withdraw its application to leave, but others, including the British government, hold that it would be a one-way track to the exit door.
At the moment, the majority of MPs are in favour of respecting the result. There are a few exceptions, including some Liberal Democrats and the former Labour leadership contender Owen Smith, who want another referendum after a deal with the EU has been negotiated; and a handful of diehard remainers, such as the Europhile Tory MP Ken Clarke, who want to halt the process altogether. This could probably only change if there was an obvious shift in the public mood towards staying in. That could push politicians to rethink their fervour for carrying out the “will of the people” in favour of Brexit. However, such a shift is unlikely before the end of March.
There is a high court ruling that says parliament must give its approval for Brexit before article 50 can be triggered. The government is appealing against this, but if the judgment stands MPs could theoretically prevent Brexit. It is unlikely, however, that they will do so given that Labour has indicated it will support legislation paving the way for Britain’s exit – likely to be in the form of a three-line parliamentary bill. On the other hand, MPs may try to hold up the process by asking for more details about May’s strategy and demands before giving their approval. While there is a majority of MPs in favour of proceeding with Brexit, there is probably no majority for a hard Brexit involving a clean break with the single market and customs union.
Economic gloom popularly blamed on Brexit could conceivably cause voters to rethink their support for leaving the EU. In his interview with the New Statesman, Blair suggests this is one of two situations in which people could change their mind about Brexit. He says people might reconsider if the exit terms negotiated with the EU looked so economically damaging that the “pain-gain” ratio made it no longer worthwhile. But there is a strong argument that this would only happen if and when people’s jobs, finances and lives had already started to be affected by an economic slump.
The second situation outlined by Blair is that the exit terms negotiated with the EU seem so similar to the status quo that people question whether the UK should bother leaving. This is perhaps a less likely scenario because May has been adamant that she will not accept one of the fundamental pillars of the EU: freedom of movement. At the moment, there appears to be little appetite from EU leaders to change their rules to keep the UK in the bloc, although international politics can shift substantially during two years of negotiations.
Probably, or a general election won by a party campaigning to drop Brexit. The crunch point would come at the point of May returning from Brussels with an exit deal, and if parliament felt the result was not satisfactory and decided to vote it down. It would be difficult for the prime minister to avoid giving the Commons and Lords a vote at this point.
If this happened, the prime minister could either try to negotiate a better deal, or decide to bypass parliament by getting her own mandate for the deal. Her choices would be to hold a general election, or run another referendum, either on the terms of the deal, or on whether to proceed with leaving at all, bearing in mind that it is not yet clear that article 50 can be withdrawn once triggered.
The decision to call another referendum would be highly contentious and divisive. Leave campaigners would not give up without a fight, especially if there were to be a narrow result in favour of staying in.
The government does not accept that the devolved administrations have a veto, although it has promised to give them a consultative role in the process of leaving the EU. However, the Scottish and Welsh governments have been allowed to take part in the supreme court appeal, which may determine how much say they have over the Brexit process through their own legislatures.
Scotland is the most likely to want to halt Brexit as its voters wanted to stay in the EU. Further down the line, Scottish National party MPs in Westminster could play a role in trying to block any deal done by May, clubbing together with MPs from other parties if they do not like the terms.
In Northern Ireland, the ruling Democratic Unionist party is in favour of Brexit but a campaigner for victims of paramilitary violence has won the right to a hearing in the supreme court aimed at blocking Northern Ireland from leaving the EU.
December brings not only the countdown to Christmas, but a nerve-wracking time for the students invited to interview for a place to study law at Oxbridge and several other universities. So if you are one of the chosen few, how can you give yourself the best chance of winning a place? Four law tutors provide an idea of what to expect and tips for making the most of the opportunity.
The form of the interviews vary across institutions, but the general approach is the same. At Oxford, explains Rebecca Williams, a law fellow at Pembroke College, students are interviewed two or three times over a couple of days by separate panels, each made up of two or three law tutors. Interviews will often take the form of mini-tutorial. Beforehand, students are given a passage of text, which may be part of a judgment, with any legal jargon removed, and asked to discuss it.
The format for the interviews at Cambridge follow a similar pattern. Candidates have two interviews conducted by different law fellows, explains Claire Fenton-Glynn, fellow and law lecturer at Jesus College. One will involve the student being asked about an extract of a legal text that they have been given in advance, and the other is more “free form”, in which students are asked to consider scenarios.
For instance, students last year were asked a question about the “Keep off the lawn” signs that are a common sight on the college grounds: “If no one could see you and if no one would find out, would you walk on the grass?”
To test their responses, students were asked to consider whether they would walk on the grass if they were late for their interview, or if they saw a person choking on the other side of it. If they said they would walk on the grass, they might then have been asked what gave them the right to break the rules, and whether all rules could be broken.
Tutors stress that no legal knowledge is required or expected of those being interviewed. They are not interested in whether the students give the right answer – there may not even be right answers. They are really looking at a student’s comprehension skills and their ability to take in information, analyse it, and think critically, says Fenton-Glynn.
What is being assessed, says Williams, is “raw intelligence”, and the ability to cope with the course. “We are testing their logical reasoning and want to see how they think and how their brains work.”
The fundamental skill they are looking for, says Sam Lucy, director of admissions for the Cambridge colleges, is “precision of thinking” – most other things, she says, can be taught. She wants to see if students can pick up on the subtleties and ambiguities of language that shows they recognise matters can be interpreted in different ways. “It’s about have a sensitivity to language with almost a mathematical bent.”
Students, she adds, are not there to defend a particular position and should not feel bound to stick to one line of argument, particularly if they feel they have gone down the wrong path. Tutors will give hints for students to change their minds and want to see if they can pick up on them. Sticking doggedly to a position, warns Thomas Krebs, law tutor at Brasenose College, Oxford, may indicate that a student is not open to being taught. He says it is a fault typically seen in students from some independent schools, who have often been told to stick to their guns. “We want to see if you are flexible and can be taught.”
Given the format and subject matter of the interviews, there is little that students can do to prepare – at least practically. The best thing to do, says Fenton-Glynn, is to read widely – and not necessarily legal texts, but newspapers and blogs.
She recommends the HE+ website, which allows students to explore law, giving guided activities, questions, videos and further reading.
And candidates should not get hung up on what to wear. Whether you wear your school uniform, a suit or jeans and a T-shirt, the important thing, says Williams, is to wear something you feel comfortable in and that enables you to perform at your best. Fenton-Glynn agrees: “You are not assessed on your appearance. We’re looking for the best students, it’s as simple as that.”
Keep up with the latest on Guardian Students: follow us on Twitter at @GdnStudents – and become a member to receive exclusive benefits and our weekly newsletter.
Trinity Mirror has no right to own newspapers. Its board should resign. Read the story of what the publisher did to Robert Norman, as detailed in a Press Gazette interview, and you will understand why.
Let’s begin with these statements of principle that guide journalists in Britain and Europe:
“Journalists have a moral obligation to protect confidential sources of information.” (UK editors’ code of practice) “A journalist protects the identity of sources who supply information in confidence.” (National Union of Journalists’ code of conduct) “Protecting sources is a key principle of journalism for which some journalists have gone to jail.” (BBC editorial guidelines)
Now consider the judicial support for that principle:
But Trinity Mirror did not agree. It sacrificed that principle. In so doing, it set in train events that have wrecked the life of a confidential journalistic source: Robert Norman, former prison officer.
He is not the only one of Trinity Mirror’s victims. Nor is the Daily Mirror’s owner the only sinner: News Corporation also revealed the identities of the sources of Sun reporters.
What is different is that Norman has become the first of the 32 sources who were convicted under Operation Elveden, the Metropolitan police investigation into newspaper payments to public officials, to speak out.
Here is what happened to him. In April 2006, he was working at Belmarsh maximum security prison in London, acting as health and safety officer for the Prison Officers’ Association.
He was upset about the management’s failure to deal with the fact that a female officer was having an affair with an inmate, regarding it as a potential danger to staff.
So he phoned the Daily Mirror newsdesk and was put in touch with reporter Stephen Moyes. The story, leaked by other prison colleagues, broke before Moyes could get to it, but he asked Norman to get in touch should anything else happen.
Norman told Press Gazette’s editor Dominic Ponsford: “I did, over staff cuts and security. All the stories I gave him were in the public interest, highlighting dangers to the public and dangers to staff.
“Stephen managed to get a story in about the staff cuts and we went from there.”
Over the following five years, Norman shared 40 pieces of information with Moyes. In return he received tip fees totalling £10,684.
Money, he stresses, was not the driving factor. Ponsford lists some of the stories. They included the regrading of prisoners to ease overcrowding, security issues over laptops, a prisoner’s suicide, excessive expenditure on a staff party and the prison’s failure to pass security inspections.
In 2011, he decided to stop giving stories to Moyes, who had moved to the News of the World. He said: “I cut all ties with Stephen and decided to concentrate on getting through to retirement.”
But two years later Trinity Mirror took a fateful step. Caught in the backwash of phone-hacking allegations and aware of News Corp having passed on information about payments to public officials, it decided to do the same.
Norman was one of those identified in the documents it passed to the police. And, in May 2013, Norman was roused from his sleep at 5.45am.
Sixteen police officers “barged into my house,” he said. “All that was missing were the helicopters and the napalm.” He was placed on police bail for two years, prosecuted for committing misconduct in a public office and, after a three-week Old Bailey trial in 2015, he was convicted and sentenced to jail for 20 months.
By contrast, charges against Moyes, and other journalists, were dropped after the Crown Prosecution Service reviewed Operation Elveden cases. Sources, however, were not spared. Moyes was upset about the prosecution of Norman.
Norman had to sell his house in order to pay the £51,000 costs of his defence. His wife’s mental health, already fragile, deteriorated. She attempted to take her own life and was committed to psychiatric care on three occasions. (Now, thankfully, she is said to be “on the road to recovery.”)
Norman served six months in prison and five under home detention. Last month, he lost his appeal against conviction. He is planning a further appeal to the supreme court.
He now lives on the £64 a week, which he receives from the state as his wife’s full-time carer.
Ponsford asked Norman what he thought of Trinity Mirror’s action. He replied: “You’re a source and journalists are supposed to look after their sources...
“I think the way myself and other whistleblowers have been treated is absolutely atrocious.”
Moyes, who left the Mirror for the News of the World and later moved to the Sun, clearly agrees. He registered his dismay at Norman being charged, saying: “Without him a number of important security and safety exposés would have been hushed up.”
Trinity Mirror, which declined to comment to Ponsford, confirmed to me that it is not making any response. No surprise there. How could it be anything other than embarrassed by Norman’s sad story? 
I repeat. The board should resign. It is led by chairman David Grigson and chief executive Simon Fox. Vijay Vaghela is the finance director, and there are five non-executives: Lee Ginsberg, Steve Hatch, David Kelly, Helen Stevenson and Olivia Streatfeild.
Grigson, Fox and Vaghela were in post when the decision was made to inform the police and are therefore responsible for breaking a cardinal rule of journalism. The five non-execs, who were appointed later, should also consider their positions.
If any of them have a shred of respect for the trade from which they profit they should step down.
At least 25 Indian NGOs have lost licences to receive international funding because of their “anti-national” activities, while a further 11,319 have lost licences for failing to renew them, shrinking India’s pool of foreign-funded organisations to a little more than half the number it was two years ago.
According to the Ministry of Home Affairs, the licences were revoked because the NGOs “failed to meet legal requirements” under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) (pdf) of 2010. The move could mean that some NGOs reliant on international funding will be forced to close.
Many of the 25 NGOs received notices saying their licences would be cancelled based on the government’s “field reports”. They said they were not given any indication of which laws they had violated or what the field reports said.
Henri Tiphagne, executive director of social justice and human rights organisation People’s Watch, said the decision to revoke his NGO’s licence was the latest in a series of moves by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata party to quash opposition.
“The government is determined to see no dissent. I completely uphold the principle that NGOs should be transparent and that is why we have been filing all the documents, and we have even put our accounts from the last 10 years on our website,” he said. “But the government should at least give us a reason why they have taken this step, so if we need to appeal the decision we know what we are appealing against. …
“It’s harassment for the NGOs. When things go wrong, we speak up. Perhaps that is what is irritating the government.”
Dunu Roy, director of the Hazards Centre – which also lost its licence – said: “All we know is that there is a field agency report, but we don’t know which field agency, or what the report says, or when it was written. They can’t take one-sided action like this. If they found a genuine reason that we should not operate, then they should tell us that reason.”
Charities said that, with the bulk of their funding cut, they would find it difficult to keep operating in India. Anil Chaudhary, who heads the Indian Social Action Forum (Insaf), another NGO that lost its licence, said: “Around 85% of our funding comes from foreign donations. Now we cannot receive foreign funds and we cannot operate our accounts.”
Many NGOs had opposed the government’s draconian laws by refusing to file renewal documents. They argued that human rights and environmental groups that campaign against Modi’s corporate-friendly development programmes were being targeted by the government.
Modi’s latest cull is part of a growing antipathy towards NGOs as India tries to modernise its infrastructure and push economic growth. In February, Modi said NGOs were acting as fronts for foreign lobby organisations or terrorist groups conspiring to destabilise India and defame him.
In 2014, a leaked Intelligence Bureau document to Modi said foreign-funded NGOs that highlighted issues such as caste discrimination, human rights or environmental concerns were part of a “growth-retarding campaign” to discredit India at international forums. Under his government, major international charities including Greenpeace have been targeted by the government.
A joint statement from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said the government was using the FCRA to muzzle NGOs. “The law’s use of broad and vague terms such as ‘public interest’ and ‘national interest’ have left it open to abuse,” read the statement.
It added that in May the government temporarily suspended funding licences for the Lawyers Collective, citing alleged violations under the FCRA. “The charges appeared to be politically motivated because of their work in routinely representing people in cases against the current government, including Priya Pillai of Greenpeace India and Teesta Setalvad, an activist who has been seeking justice for victims of the 2002 communal violence in Gujarat.”
Three UN special rapporteurs have urged Modi to repeal the FCRA, which they say is being used increasingly “to silence organisations involved in advocating civil, political, economic, social, environmental or cultural priorities, which may differ from those backed by the government”.
Home ministry spokesman KS Dhatwalia said he would not comment on why NGOs had been targeted by the government. “Obviously, the government has no personal agenda against these NGOS. The NGOs know there are certain regulations they are supposed to follow. If you do not follow the law of the land, your licence will be removed. It’s as simple as that.”
Letters: Judges could be elected in part by the public from among suitably qualified and experienced lawyers
Lord Neuberger rightly addresses the need for diversity on the supreme court bench (Report, 22 November). The proposed measures including flexible working practices and changes in the recruitment process are to be welcomed. However, the article goes on to state that there is a wider “criticism of the composition of the judiciary” particularly at senior levels from which supreme court judges are recruited. There is a radical solution: judges could be elected in part by the public from among suitably qualified and experienced lawyers. In this way the judiciary would more accurately reflect the public they serve. Judges could in turn then elect the supreme court from among their own numbers.
Francis McGonigal
Birmingham City University
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
Last month I persuaded a few dozen people to have a “squirting water fight” outside parliament to highlight the absurdity of UK sex laws. The digital economy bill – currently at committee stage – is an outrageous attack on the sexual liberty and personal privacy of adults in the UK. It will destroy the livelihoods of many adult industry workers, particularly webcam performers and DIY porn producers such as me. Making and selling our own content online gives us autonomy over our work – but the mandatory age verification and censorship this legislation will impose on online porn will take that away.
I own and operate Dreams of Spanking; a niche BDSM (bondage, domination, submission and masochism) site with films expressing my personal sexual fantasies. Running my own website gives me total freedom to do what I want on camera, with the people I choose. Authentic and performer-centric sites such as mine are exactly what the porn industry needs – but small-scale independent websites will be devastated if the digital economy bill is passed into law.
I’m no stranger to censorship. Last year, Dreams of Spanking was unsuccessfully targeted under the Audiovisual Media Services Regulations 2014, because my consensual BDSM videos depict spankings that leave marks. After a traumatic, invasive investigation, I was forced to take my site offline – and I was left in no doubt that the law considers kinky sexualities such as mine to be obscene.
I sought legal help, and eventually won my appeal and reopened the site. But I had a mere four weeks to enjoy my victory before the digital economy bill was presented to parliament, and I realised that I was going to face being criminalised all over again.
I can’t help that I like spanking. I’ve known I was fascinated by the idea since childhood, when I read about it in books and wondered what it felt like to experience. I kept my interest secret, feeling ashamed without really knowing why. As I entered puberty, I felt like a freak.
It wasn’t until I got online in the late 1990s and found free previews for online pornography (which I wasn’t legally old enough to view) that I realised I wasn’t alone. For the first time, I began to understand that maybe I wasn’t the only person on the planet who found the idea of spanking erotic after all.
This is why I make BDSM porn: I want to send the message that there’s nothing wrong with being kinky, and to help isolated individuals feel less alone. There’s nothing wrong with us; our fetish isn’t harmful to society. On the contrary, it does great harm to criminalise sites that are a lifeline to people with marginalised sexualities.
By bringing in mandatory age verification the digital economy bill will force homegrown porn out of business. Feminist, queer and indie porn sites are labours of love. We don’t make much money, and can’t afford to securely age check every site visitor. We bring much-needed diversity to the adult industry, and disrupt the homogeneity and heteronormativity of mainstream porn. We empower performers, depict authentic self-expression and subvert stereotypes. It’s our sites that will disappear if this becomes law – not the behemoths of traditional porn, which are far more likely to be stumbled across by those not ready for that content.
Not only that, but age checks requiring users to submit identifying details to prove their age will enable record-keeping on a global scale. Do you want a private company to own a database of every porn site you’ve ever looked at – and would you trust a “tube site” to keep that data safe? Me neither.
Most worrying is the list of “prohibited content” – material that the digital economy bill seeks to ban entirely. This is based on the BBFC classification guidelines, which excludes an awful lot of consensual sex acts from R18, the highest category. Acts that are legal to perform in the UK, but not legal to depict in porn, which includes fisting, watersports and female ejaculation (if the fluid lands on another person, or is consumed).
What message are we sending to young women by criminalising porn that depicts a visual, undeniable representation of female sexual fulfilment? Do we really want girls to think that the way their bodies naturally respond to pleasure is obscene?
The UK’s laws around sex and porn need bringing up to date. The BBFC rules ultimately derive from the Obscene Publications Act – a law dating from 1959, when it was still illegal to have gay sex, never mind film it. It’s absurd that this law should still be controlling what we can do with our bodies.
If we want to help young people stay safe online, we need to teach privacy skills and how to critique the media they will inevitably encounter online. We need to make sex education mandatory in schools – and we need it to answer the questions young people are asking, such as: how will I know when I’m ready to have sex? And when I am, how can I make my partner feel good? Attacking online porn is a cheap way to score political points – and it’s a distraction from the real issues.
Irish trade unions have launched a campaign for a referendum to abolish an amendment to the Irish constitution that pro-choice campaigners say prevents serious reform of strict anti-abortion laws.
The leaders of some of the country’s biggest unions gathered on a bridge over the river Liffey in Dublin on Wednesday morning to call for the repeal of the eighth amendment, which gives an unborn child the right to life, for the first time since it was passed more than three decades ago.
The amendment was introduced through a referendum in 1983. Ireland’s then politically influential anti-abortion lobby, in alliance with the Catholic church, forced the Fine Gael-Labour coalition to hold a national vote to in effect make an embryo into an Irish citizen. It passed with 67% voting in favour.
Pro-choice groups say the amendment creates a legal “chill factor” among medical teams, even in cases where a recent law allows for terminations in very limited circumstances, such as when continuing with a pregnancy would result in the woman’s death or in cases where she is suicidal.
At the Rosie Hackett bridge, named after a prominent 20th-century Irish revolutionary feminist and trade unionist, the country’s trade union leadership said it was time to give a new generation of Irish voters a chance to overhaul Ireland’s anti-abortion laws.
Mary Diskin, a spokeswoman for the Trade Union Campaign to Repeal the Eighth Amendment, said: “Abortion is a reality in Ireland: between 1980 and 2014, at least 163,514 women registered for terminations abroad; many others gave no personal details.”
She said the near total abortion ban hit lower-paid women hardest given that it costs up to €3,000 to travel to Britain for a termination.
Diskin said it was the duty of unions to campaign against “the cruelty to women that they have to leave this jurisdiction for a service that is available throughout the world but not available here in Ireland”.
Unite’s regional secretary, Jimmy Kelly, said: “Last year, over 3,400 women travelled from the Irish Republic to Britain to access abortion. As a pro-choice union, Unite has consistently argued that the eighth amendment must be repealed as a first step to enabling women to access safe, legal and affordable terminations in Ireland.”
However, Kelly expressed some doubt that the Fine Gael-led minority government was strong enough to push through legislation that would lead to a new referendum on the issue. 
“Every issue seems now to be affected by this government being propped up by Fianna Fáil and I wouldn’t be hopeful that they make the move that we need made to repeal the eighth. It will probably happen in the next government,” he said.
In Turkey, backbenchers of the ruling AK party have proposed that child rapists be allowed out of jail on the condition that they marry their victims, a scheme that will supposedly allow girls under the age of 16 to be “reunified” with the men who abused them as a family unit. When I first heard the news, I started sobbing and couldn’t stop. I kept thinking about all the girls who would go through what I had gone through. I couldn’t imagine this becoming legal.
I feel ashamed of being a Turk. It is awful enough that the rape of children happens; but now they have tried to legalise it. I thought that we’d moved on, that those days were behind us. Now I realise nothing has changed. Men are still doing their best to put women precisely where they want them to be.
Why am I writing anonymously? Because I am still frightened of my attacker.
When I was 14 I lived in southern Turkey. I was top of the class and very popular. I had a close friend from school, and sometimes I would go to her house. Once or twice I met her older brother, who was about 15 years older than me. I called him “abi”, meaning “elder brother”. We didn’t really speak. One day my friend said, “My abi wants to take me to the cinema, will you come with me?” I asked my mother and she said yes – he was regarded as an important man in the community and was well respected.
He took us out a few times in his car. He always dropped me off first before taking his sister home. Then, one day he dropped my friend off and drove in the opposite direction to my house. I was terrified. He stopped the car just outside town and turned to me. I started screaming before he could touch me. Suddenly a policeman approached the car and asked what was going on. He tried to lie; he knew he was in trouble, but he was taken to the police station. I was escorted home and sent to my room. The next day I was not allowed to go to school.
My uncle came a couple of days later, saying, “I’m going to sort this out, but you have to get engaged to this man.” I said there was no way I would, but my uncle said I had to if I wanted to go back to school. I found out later that they changed my birth certificate to make me two years older, so that my friend’s brother could be released from prison.
Once we were engaged, I was allowed back to school, but the teachers humiliated me and I lost all my friends. I got good marks and I could have gone to university. But my mother and uncle said, “No, you’re going to get married.” I refused. They said, “Look, this will be a formality, you can’t go to university if you don’t get married.”
I remember the day my family put me in a taxi to the registry office. I made them stop the car twice; I was desperate, terrified. Both times they said, “No, you have to go, otherwise we will be humiliated.” I signed the papers and we started our life together as a married couple.
There was not a second that I didn’t hate. All my aspirations and hopes had been dashed. I started working and at least that was something, but then he told me I had to leave work. He made my life an absolute misery, but I couldn’t do anything because he had control of our money. When I asked for a divorce, he said he would cut me into bits and scatter my parts – and “no one will find you”.
This is exactly what is going to happen to these girls in Turkey if the law is changed. It happens already, and it’ll be even worse: legally sanctioned rape. For now, the bill has been withdrawn owing to a public outcry – but the fact that it was proposed is a dark indication of the priorities of this government. There is no guarantee that a similar proposal won’t be made in future.
When people talk about rape there are many cliches, but what is absolutely true is that the victim thinks that they’re the one who is the cause of it; that they are the problem. They think: “Why couldn’t I have pushed him harder, why couldn’t I have bitten him or scratched his face?” I could never be the same again, that was the horror of it all. In the end I escaped, but it nearly killed me.
The change in the law being proposed is cultural, not moral, and the government knows this. It argues it’s for the good of the raped child and her offspring – that it will make her more respectable, save her honour and keep the family together. But actually it’s all about getting the man off the hook. If they change the law, men will be able to rape girls and then say, “I’ll just marry her.” And what’s the good of that? Once you’re married, you’re given the licence to be raped, again and again and again. At least if it wasn’t legal then you wouldn’t have to be married. At least you wouldn’t be sentenced to be your attacker’s sex slave.
Condemning a girl to a lifetime of rape is taking everything from her – her youth, her future, her happiness. When I heard the news, I knew I had to share my story. I want people to know what it’s like to go through this.
Lord chief justice says he hopes ‘problem-solving courts’ scheme is expanded and warns of shortage of high court judges
Honestly, these cryonics stories are driving me mad (Report, 18 November). As someone with terminal cancer (and ignoring the fact that I find the description in your articles of people like myself as “cancer victims” to be teeth-grindingly irritating) I feel everyone is ignoring the fact that a young woman looked into her future and saw the denial of everything she was promised. She was denied boyfriends, university, a job, marriage, children, life… and she was not ready to give up on those promises. She didn’t want to die. None of us does. I’m grateful that the judge had the good sense to realise this was not about whether cryonics worked, but her own hopes for the future. Reading some pieces lately it seems that while we’ll arrange bungee-jumping days out for the terminally ill, how one disposes of one’s own corpse is a step too far in giving the dying what they’re asking for.
Julia Frith
Lincoln
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
Fewer criminals should be jailed and tougher community punishments developed as an alternative to imprisonment, the lord chief justice has urged.
Appearing before MPs on the justice select committee on Monday, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd also warned there was a shortage of high court judges partially because of cuts in their pension rights and that up to 40 would need to be recruited by over the next few years.
The most senior judge in England and Wales welcomed the introduction of US-style “problem-solving courts”, whereby offenders are brought back regularly to have their sentences and progress reviewed by a judge after conviction.
Thomas said there had been a “pause in the government’s thinking” but hoped the scheme would be expanded. “There’s an awful lot we can do to avoid sending certain people to prison provided that the orders are properly carried out by the probation and rehabilitation companies,” he said. 
“The prison population is very, very high at the moment. Whether it will continue to rise is always difficult to tell. There are worries that it will. I don’t know whether we can dispense with more [offenders] by really tough, and I do mean tough, community penalties. So I would like to see that done first.”
His comments come as jails in England and Wales endure a turbulent period. This month thousands of prison officers staged a walkout amid claims the system was “in meltdown” after a rise in violence and self-harm incidents in jails. There are more than 85,000 people in prison in England and Wales.
Thomas said the latest survey of morale among the judiciary showed serious concerns, reflecting resentment over cuts in the value of judges’ pensions and changes to their working practices.
An employment tribunal is hearing a claim by more than 200 judges who allege that they have been the subject of discrimination because newly appointed judges have been given less generous pension provision.
The lord chief justice said that on recruitment, judges take a “huge salary cut” from their work as barristers in private practice. High court judges are paid about £180,000 a year.
There is a shortfall of about six high court judges. “We will need to recruit 30 to 40 over the next few years,” Thomas told the select committee.
The transfer of more and more low-level cases, such as motoring offences, to online courts is likely to result in a more organised system of publishing the names of those who have pleaded guilty or been convicted, Thomas said. 
MPs on the committee did no ask him about his response to being labelled along with the master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton, and Lord Justice Sales as “enemies of the people” by the Daily Mail after their Brexit ruling.
Asked, outside the committee room, whether such attacks depress judicial morale, Thomas told reporters: “I have observations to make but it’s not proper to make them at this time. There’s an appeal still before the court.”
The 20-year minimum terms handed to a teenage couple believed to be Britain’s youngest double-murderers have been referred to the attorney general for being “unduly lenient”.
The boy and girl were both 14 at the time when they killed Elizabeth Edwards, 49, and her 13-year-old daughter, Katie, at their home in Spalding, Lincolnshire, in April. Afterwards the couple had sex, shared a bath and watched four Twilight vampire films, their trial heard.
Now both 15, the couple were handed life sentences by Mr Justice Haddon-Cave, who said the pair had a toxic relationship and acted in a grotesque way.
Sentencing them at Nottingham crown court earlier this month, the judge said the case had “few parallels in modern criminal history”.
He told the teenagers: “There was remarkable premeditation and planning – it was, on any view, substantial, meticulous and repeated.
“The killings were brutal in the form of executions and both victims, particularly Elizabeth Edwards, must have suffered terribly in the last minutes of their lives.
“Had you been adults you may have been facing the whole of your lives in prison for this double murder.”
The court was told the boy, who admitted murder, used a kitchen knife to stab both victims in the neck after attacking them as they slept.
His girlfriend, who helped to plan the “cold, calculated and callous” killings, denied murder. Her defence argued that she had an abnormality of mental function that impaired her ability to form rational judgments. She was found guilty after a five-day trial.
The case was referred to the attorney general under the unduly lenient sentence scheme and law officers have 28 days to decide if any action should be taken.
A statement from the attorney general’s office said: “We are unable to provide the details of who referred the case. The threshold to refer cases to the court of appeal is very high.
“A sentence can only be regarded as unduly lenient if there has been a gross error and it is significantly below the level that any judge could have reasonably imposed after considering the facts of the case.”
Britain often claims to possess the finest justice system in the world, with a “colour blind” approach to the law. Unfortunately, this isn’t true: justice is neither colour blind, nor is it equal.
Historically, the justice system has been used to legitimise slavery, and then colonialism, from Elizabethan England onwards. In Kenya, between 1951 and 1954, during the Mau Mau uprising, more than 1,090 Kenyans were executed by the British colonial judiciary, backed by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. This appalling figure represents the most liberal use of the death penalty in British legal history and is double the number of those executed by the French during the war of liberation in Algeria 10 years later.
In more recent times, judges have enforced the unjust “sus” laws (the informal name used for stop-and-search laws which still disproportionately affect BME people). It can be argued that racism is embedded in the DNA of the British judiciary and that it has proved uniquely resilient to education or training.
But to what extent is racism present in the system today? A study headed by David Lammy MP, published last week, makes for very disturbing reading.
In 1991, statistics regarding how differently BME and white suspects were dealt with in the criminal justice system helped to trigger race training for all full-time judges over a five-year period. Those statistics have not improved. If you are an African-Caribbean man you are 16% more likely to be remanded in custody than if you are white; you are also likely to obtain a custodial sentence of 24 months compared to your white counterpart’s 17 months. This is not because African-Caribbean men commit more serious offences than their white counterparts – these are punishments handed down for the same or similar offences. African-Caribbean men are also subject to receiving immediate custodial sentences with fewer previous convictions than their white counterparts. Our perceptions have become the reality that means 41% of all young people in detention are now from BME communities.
What is critical is that the report highlights, yet again, the fundamental racist disparities in the dispensation, administration and dissemination of justice. There is a crisis of both trust and confidence in the British judicial system among black communities. Their concerns are that it remains arbitrary, inconsistent and discriminatory. This interim report proves them right – despite its diplomatic language.
Of course, poverty, homelessness and drug addiction all play their part, as does the disproportionate influence of an institutionally racist police culture, which means black defendants are stopped and searched seven times more often than their white counterparts. This is despite falling stop-and-search figures, and falling crime generally.
A significant responsibility for this disparity of treatment still lies with an overwhelmingly white, middle class and male magistracy and judiciary, resistant to ethnic monitoring, which hides behind the fallacy that justice is “colour blind and impartial”.
We cannot expect to have a diverse judiciary and magistracy, and to recruit police officers, probation officers, prison officers and lawyers who look like us and are knowledgeable of our communities, if we are forced to operate in a system that is itself unwilling or unable to deliver justice equally to all. As Martin Luther King said, “It is not possible to be in favour of justice for some people and not to be in favour of justice for all people.”
At present, out of 161 members of the high court judiciary, there is not a single African-Caribbean judge, while only two are of Asian origin. Less than 2.5% of Oxford and Cambridge graduates (from whom 86% of high court judges are drawn) are of African-Caribbean origin. The legal pipeline and the outcome are a self-fulfilling prophecy. The race training introduced in 1991, was only introduced on the basis that high court judges were exempt, as they simply did not require it. That rather arrogant intellectual exception must now be addressed.
Lord Neuberger’s comments last night suggest that he knows judicial diversity needs tackling. I am currently suing the Ministry of Justice for race discrimination and victimisation arising out of short speech on judicial racism and human rights I gave. It was at a meeting to protest at the decision of an electoral deputy high court judge to ban the former mayor of Tower Hamlets, Lutfur Rahman, from holding public office for five years. The allegation was that I indirectly criticised a fellow judge, the first time any judge has ever faced disciplinary action for this charge.
Several months later, in November 2015, there was an attempt to suspend me, approved by several high court judges, and the Judicial Conduct Investigations Office, who threatened me with a formal suspension. This was at the same time that a fellow immigration judge of African origin had her complaint of sex and race discrimination ignored while the three white judges accused were never faced with suspension. A fellow Asian district judge still faces disciplinary sanctions for a minor complaint that at most was a competence issue, and three other BME judges are currently suing the Ministry of Justice. The treatment of BME judges by our white colleagues demonstrates a culture in which we are not accepted as equals with a fundamental right to challenge discrimination. Little wonder then that BME defendants and litigants face race discrimination in all jurisdictions.
Even if one achieves a “critical mass” of BME judges and magistrates, the injustice is unlikely to be eradicated if the culture of who is perceived to be the likely recidivist or the most “dangerous” offender persists. The only solution is the one resisted by the Ministry of Justice, and by most senior judges – that is monitoring each crown court and magistrates centre so that there can be proper scrutiny of individual courts to identify where the problem lies.
Allied to this must be a full acknowledgement by the Sentencing Council that sentencing and bail guidance must set out clearly the levels of disparity for each offence. Simply pretending the problem does not exist is a recipe for unconscious but appalling levels of racial bias to continue unchecked.
The training on race from 1991 to 1995 worked, as it forced judges to engage with BME mentors who challenged subconscious bias and racism as equals in a secure setting. The race awareness training practised in the 20 years since has been discredited as wholly ineffective. It is too polite, conducted infrequently and by fellow judges who themselves are part of the problem.
The judiciary is a pillar of our democracy with a historical responsibility for the racism that affects our fundamental freedoms and rights. If that is to change, it must work hard to eradicate disproportionate sentences and bail that remove the freedom and rights of people of colour. Justice cannot be the prerogative of a narrow, white middle-class elite, who believe that racism is a problem for other lesser mortals to confront.
A Dutch journalist, Okke Ornstein, is being held in jail in Panama after being arrested last Tuesday (15 November) on a charge of criminal libel.
He is facing a 20-month prison sentence over articles published on his blog about the business practices of a Canadian who lives in Panama City, Monte Friesner.
The Dutch Journalists Association (NVJ) has called for Ornstein’s release, arguing that the charge is baseless.
Its secretary-general, Thomas Bruning, said the prison sentence “is against the fundamental principles of freedom of speech and the freedom of expression, principles that are acknowledged as fundamental rights worldwide.”
His call is backed by the International and European Federations of Journalists (IFJ and EFJ). IFJ’s president, Philippe Leruth, said: “Journalists should be able to investigate freely. The messenger is being punished [for his message].
“This prison sentence sends a signal that critical journalism on fraud and corruption is not possible in Panama. Ornstein is being punished in a way that does not comply with the principles of a democratic justice system.”
According to Ornstein’s lawyer, Channa Samkalden, Ornstein did not get due process during the criminal proceedings in Panama following a complaint from Freisner.
NVJ is working with the Dutch foreign ministry and the Dutch embassy in Panama to secure Ornstein’s release.
Ornstein, who works for Dutch broadcasters and Al-Jazeera, often writes about corruption and fraud cases on his bananamarerepublic blog (which is currently closed).
His broadcasting work has been nominated for awards, such as the Prix Europa radio prize in 2013 and the Tegel prize in 2015.
In the former instance, his radio documentary about the environmental consequences of a hydroelectric dam in Panama funded by a Dutch bank prompted questions in the Dutch parliament.
Parents of transgender children fear their ex-partners will sue them for custody of their children after the high court ruled that a seven-year-old child who the mother perceives as transgender should be removed from her care.
Four mothers of trans children have said their ex-partners have threatened to take them to court for custody of their child in the wake of the ruling, says Mermaids, an organisation that supports young trans people and their families, which also supported the mother in the high court case.
“We have had four separate parents come forward, in cases where the ex-partner doesn’t agree with the child’s [gender] presentation,” said Susie Green, CEO of Mermaids. “All the ones that have come through so far have been the mum who has custody and the father is unsupportive.”
One of these mothers was recently served with papers from her ex-partner beginning legal proceedings regarding the care of their child. She said her ex-partner has also indicated he will try to get a court order to prevent her from allowing their child to wear female clothing to school.
The mother says that her former partner had initiated the proceedings after reading about last month’s high court decision, a ruling that she said “turned my family’s world upside down”.
Green says the fathers have felt emboldened by the high court judgment, which ordered that a seven-year-old child should be removed from their mother because the judge ruled she had caused the child “significant emotional harm” through her determination they live “life entirely as a girl” despite being born male.
“I find that she has overborne [the child’s] will and deprived him of his fundamental right to exercise his autonomy in its most basic way,” wrote Mr Justice Hayden. “This is not a case about gender dysphoria, rather it is about a mother who has developed a belief structure which she has imposed upon her child.”
“[The fathers] have literally said: ‘I’ve seen this [the court ruling]. I’m going to take you to court,’” said Green. “Parents are very, very frightened, and rightly so.”
Another mother, Miranda, said that a few days after the high court ruling in October she was contacted by her ex-partner, who threatened to take her to court to get their child, who was born female but now identifies as male and is known as Jake, removed from her care.
“He’s quite pleased with the news [of the high court ruling] because he’s tried to have Jake taken off me in the past,” said Miranda. “I think he was almost trying to prove that it’s some kind of agenda that all single mothers have to get back at their ex-partners. He said: ‘Look, this mother’s done it too, forced their child to be of another gender.’”
Miranda says her former partner is unsupportive of Jake’s new identity, which he believes Miranda has forced on him.
“He thinks that our boy is still a girl – he’s supposed to have the clothing that Jake wants to wear, but he doesn’t,” said Miranda. “I still have female clothing if Jake chooses to wear it, you still have to be open to the possibility that he might turn around and say: ‘I’m Joanna again’, even though Jake’s telling me that’s never going to happen.”
Miranda said that after reading the news about the high court ruling she was “petrified” the same thing could happen to her.
“I just sat down and stared for quite some time,” she said. “I’m tired. I cry myself to sleep at night sometimes. But it is what it is. I know that it’s not a phase, you have an instinct for a reason, you’ve just got to fight for making sure your child’s happy.”
Other parents also expressed fears to the Guardian that in supporting their child’s trans identity they might jeopardise their right to custody of the child if that were ever contested.
Paula has a child who was born male, but identifies as a girl. She dressed in female clothes from the age of two, from the age of four she insisted on being called by female pronouns and would cry inconsolably at the thought of growing into a man, her mother said. She is now known as Emily.
“All I’ve ever done is follow her lead. I’ve not always wanted a trans kid, it’s not like it’s my parenting dream,” said Paula.
Paula says that Emily’s father, from whom she is separated, has found the situation difficult and recently said he was worried she was “putting ideas into [Emily’s] head” about cross-sex hormones, which are available to young people in the UK from the age of 16. The medication is available following a diagnosis of gender dysphoria from a gender identity clinic and after a year on hormone blockers.
“It looks like I don’t have any rights here and I’m just kind of terrified about what would happen if social services were involved,” Paula said of the high court ruling. “Would they view me the same way that this woman was viewed?”
Lucy who has a trans daughter, Evie, said that while her partner is supportive of their child’s identity, her mother is not and the court ruling has made her afraid.
“You do question it: could somebody use that [a child’s gender identity] to take your child away from you? It makes me worried that she’s going to use that against me with social services.
“You feel like you’ve done the right thing when you’ve helped your child transition. But then the court case comes out and you think: am I doing something wrong?”
Sarah Cornes, head of family law at TWM solicitors, said that while high court rulings did create precedents, and “clearly there is going to be a lot of concern” among parents in reaction to the ruling, the decisions made about where children live and how long they spend with each parent are “usually very fact-specific”.
“You can’t just say: there was a case and therefore everybody else’s situation will be affected. The overriding criteria in any case is what is in the best interests of the child,” said Cornes.
“[Being transgender] is not a phenomenon that people can deny the existence of; it’s a question of what weight would be given to the stated wishes of the child to transition. And of course it depends on the age of the child; the younger the child the greater the extent that external factors will be considered.”
* All names of parents and children have been changed.
The delivery firm CitySprint is to become the latest British business embroiled in a legal dispute over the gig economy when it faces demands at an employment tribunal to treat its freelance couriers as workers.
Mags Dewhurst, who has made deliveries for the firm for more than two years, will argue on Tuesday that she should be given worker status, and the rights that come with it, such as holiday pay and the national minimum wage.
The case is the first of four against different courier firms that will be heard by the same judge. The other cases, against Addison Lee, eCourier and Excel, will be heard next year.
Jason Moyer-Lee, the head of the Independent Workers Union of Great Britain (IWGB), which is backing the riders, said the cyclists worked for one company at a time and were obliged to take work they were given throughout the day.
He said independent contractors were able to send others to do their work, but that was not possible for Dewhurst and the other riders.
“Even though the courier firms say Mags can send a substitute, she can’t really, as there are restrictions that prevent that,” he said.
Moyer-Lee said the point of the cases was to test the status of the workers. CitySprint, which has 3,500 self-employed couriers in the UK, could face further claims if the tribunal finds against it.
Dewhurst said: “I’m taking this action because I have personal experience of [earning], and know many courier friends earn, below the national minimum wage. Our lives tend to be thrown into financial chaos when we want to go on holiday.
“Worker status will finally redress some of the balance between couriers and courier companies, and transform our lives for the better. These benefits have for too long been withheld by courier companies and only serve to make it easier for them to exploit their workforce. It is time to afford couriers some basic employment rights.”
An employment tribunal last month found in favour of drivers for the taxi-hailing firm Uber, who argued that they should be classed as workers. Uber has appealed against the ruling.
Moyer-Lee said: “We were confident before the Uber case. [Dewhurst] fits all the criteria [of a worker] – so does pretty much any other pushbike courier I’ve met.”
Matt Gingell, an employment law partner at Gannons Solicitors, said: “The employment tribunal may well be influenced by the Uber decision. But that judgment is not binding and the facts will be different in these cases.”
A spokesman for CitySprint said: “We can confirm we have received notification of a tribunal claim. As you will appreciate, due to the legal process we cannot comment any further on this at this stage.”
The tribunal is expected to start hearing evidence from witnesses on Wednesday.
• This article was amended on 22 November 2016 to correct employment terminology.
A new law is needed to criminalise impostors wearing military medals and decorations, the parliamentary defence committee has said, despite admitting there is only anecdotal evidence for the extent of it.
Julian Lewis, chair of the committee whose report is published on Tuesday, described the impostors as “contemptible fantasists”.
“Military impostors commit a specific harm that requires a specific criminal sanction. Other countries have sought to maintain these sanctions, for reasons of deterrence and punishment, while the United Kingdom has foolishly disposed of them,” he said.
“We support the aim of the bill to remove this anomaly, and have called our report Exposing Walter Mitty, because those who seek public admiration by pretending to have risked their lives are contemptible fantasists who need to be deterred.”
The committee says the law, which dates to the aftermath of the first world war, should have been revised rather than scrapped in 2006.
The Ministry of Defence was wrong to decide that impostors could be prosecuted under other offences, and that there was a lack of clarity in the law, the committee says. It supports a private member’s bill, the awards for valour (protection) bill, sponsored by Gareth Johnson, the Conservative MP for Dartford, which is scheduled to have its second reading in the Commons on Friday.
“The committee concludes that the deceitful wearing of decorations and medals is a specific harm which is insulting to the rightful recipients of these awards, damaging to the integrity of the military honours system and harmful to the bond between the public and the armed forces. This specific harm was considered to require a specific criminal sanction.”
The report insists there is a “strong body of anecdotal evidence” of “tangible and identifiable harm”, but concedes the incidence is difficult to determine from official statistics. “The experience of encountering military impostors among the service charities which submitted evidence also seems to vary.”
Internationally, the report notes that other countries have criminalised the deceitful use of decorations and medals, “to the extent that the lack of such protection in the United Kingdom can be considered exceptional”.
In 2009 a Warwickshire man, Roger Day, was arrested and pleaded guilty to wearing 17 medals and an SAS tie pin when he joined a Remembrance Day parade. He was later reported to have sold the medals, which his wife had bought for him, believing she was replacing ones he had genuinely earned. The case against him was later withdrawn.
At the time the MoD said the case was unusual because most of those who impersonated veterans were trying to extort free meals or drinks, or a bed for the night, rather than wanting to show off their decorations in public.
Justice Duncan Ouseley’s ruling may result in the release from detention centres of hundreds of asylum seekers who have been tortured
Another lawsuit has been filed over the film London Fields – this time directed at actor Amber Heard.
In the $10m suit filed by the film’s producers, Heard, who starred as Nicola Six in the adaptation of the 1989 Martin Amis novel, is alleged to have “breached performance and promotional obligations”, the Hollywood Reporter wrote.
The star-studded film features Heard as a psychic who foresees her own murder, alongside actors Billy Bob Thornton and Jim Sturgess, with a cameo by her former husband Johnny Depp.
London Fields was slated to make its debut at the Toronto film festival last year before being removed from the festival lineup after reports emerged that director Matthew Cullen would sue the producers for fraud, claiming they were marketing the film using his name despite debuting a version that he had nothing to do with. His suit against Christopher Hanley and other producers complained that footage of “9/11 jumpers edited against pornography” and a juxtaposition of “the holiest city in Islam against mind-control” had been inserted into the film.
The producers called the cancellation an “ill-considered decision made against our rights” at the time. In a statement, Muse Productions said Cullen missed deadlines to submit a “director’s cut”. Hanley’s Nicola Six Limited then filed a cross-complaint against Cullen. This latest suit is listed as “closely related” to that complaint, according to the 24-page document posted online by Deadline.
The suit against Heard, filed in Los Angeles superior court, stated that “Heard’s conspiracy, her campaign against the Picture, and her contractual breaches … have damaged the Picture, causing substantial harm to the Plaintiff, the Picture, and the Picture’s investors”. Among many claims, it alleged that she breached confidentiality obligations, failed to perform certain acting services and failed to comply with her publicity contract, according to the document. Later in the document, it states that her “misguided and unlawful conspiratorial campaign” against the film is ongoing.
The film has received mostly poor reviews with the Guardian’s Henry Barnes calling it “awfully silly”.
Hundreds of asylum seekers who are detained in UK immigration centres could be released after a high court judge ordered the government to review its policy on incarcerated torture survivors.
Justice Duncan Ouseley ruled on Monday that the Home Office must immediately provide “relief” to detainees at an interim hearing, releasing survivors of torture from countries such as Afghanistan, Nigeria and Sri Lanka.
Human rights lawyers, representing an initial 20 cases, had launched a legal challenge against the Home Office’s new definition of “torture” introduced in September, arguing that an unreasonably strict interpretation of the word meant that “potentially hundreds” of people have been illegally detained after claiming asylum in the UK.
The Home Office accepts that asylum seekers who have survived torture should only be detained in exceptional circumstances. Its definition had previously included any act of torture by any individual or group – but it was redefined to refer to torture carried out by official state agents only.
It is believed several hundred asylum seekers from the Middle East and Africa said they had been been tortured but are unable to prove their suffering was sanctioned by their country of origin, and have therefore been detained while claiming asylum in the UK.
Examples of detained asylum seekers referenced in court on Monday include an Afghan man in his early 20s who was reportedly kidnapped and tortured by the Taliban because he refused to be groomed into joining them. The Afghan man was beaten with knives, sticks and a gun, and the court heard his injuries are consistent with his account. Last month the Home Office told him his case did not meet the new definition of torture.
In another case, a Nepalese man said he was beaten, cut and and shot by a terrorist group in his home country. His ordeal is said to have lasted 15 days and he has scars consistent with his account but, again, his case was not held to meet the new definition.
In his conclusion, Mr Justice Ouseley expressed concern that under the new policy a number of decisions had been reached unlawfully, concluding that “I should grant interim relief in the form [requested by lawyers for the claimants]”. Ousely went on to confirm the Home Office would revert back to its previous broader definition of torture while the legal challenge continues.
A full hearing on the Home Office policy is scheduled for early next year but legal experts said that in the interim hundreds of asylum seekers would have to be released from immigration centres.
Ouseley ruled that pending trial, references to “torture” should be taken to mean “any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted on a person for such purposes as obtaining from him or a third person information or a confession, punishing him for an act he or a third person has committed, or intimidating or coercing him or a third person, or for any reason based upon discrimination of any kind”.
During the hearing, the Home Office also said independently of the legal challenge that it is reviewing 340 cases identified between 12 September and 18 November, where people who claim to have been tortured may have been wrongly detained.
If they are deemed to be survivors of torture under the old definition, they will be released. Human rights lawyers say they have also identified other cases of detainees who they say have been tortured and who should be immediately released.
Toufique Hossain, director of public law at Duncan Lewis which brought Monday’s challenge, welcomed the ruling. “We know from NGO groups and other firms that there are others – given that non-state torture is a common feature in those who are traumatised. Today’s decision could potentially affect hundreds of people.
“We are asked for a suspension of the policy until the final outcome of the hearing. We want the current policy to be quashed and requested the immediate release of anyone currently detained [under it]. This decision will potentially protect hundreds of detainees. It really shouldn’t matter when assessing whether a person should be detained, if the perpetrators are state officials or not.”
Rory Dunlop, the Home Office’s representative in court, said that to overturn a policy that had only been in place for two months was “a radical thing to do”.
Theresa Schleicher, acting director of Medical Justice, a charity that works to improve the health of immigration detainees and is involved in this legal challenge, said: “We welcome today’s decision to suspend the narrower definition of torture and to revert to the previous, wider definition. It will mean that more vulnerable torture survivors will be protected from being detained and being harmed by detention.”
The Home Office said: “We have noted the decision to grant interim relief at the procedural hearing. Given this is an ongoing legal case, for which there has yet to be a substantive hearing, we are unable to comment further.”
• The subheading on this article was amended on 22 November 2016 to change a reference to prisons to detention centres.
Rapper the Game has reportedly been ordered to pay $7.13m after being found guilty of sexual assault.
According to TMZ, a court in Illinois found in favour of plaintiff Priscilla Rainey, a contestant on She’s Got Game, a dating show where women compete to date the Game.
She sued him for $10m with claims that the 36-year-old was “out of control” and intoxicated which led him to grope her on multiple occasions in 2015. The Game’s legal team tried to discredit her by citing her background as a sex worker and time in a mental institution.
It is not the first legal case for the star. He was arrested for assaulting a fan in 2005, charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest in the same year, arrested for threatening someone with a gun in 2007 and involved in a lawsuit for assault and battery in 2012.
The Game initially broke out with hits such as How We Do, Hate It or Love It and Dreams, working with 50 Cent and Kanye West.
The Commons home affairs committee is to hold talks on the future direction of the independent inquiry into child sex abuse after receiving letters detailing the concerns of four senior lawyers who have quit the inquest.
A Home Office minister tried to reassure MPs on Monday that Prof Alexis Jay remains the right person to chair the troubled inquiry after the latest round of resignations and defections of survivors’ groups.
The Commons home affairs committee, chaired by Labour’s Yvette Cooper, is to meet in private on Tuesday to discuss the future of an inquiry that is now on its fourth chair, after the resignation of 17 lawyers and the withdrawal of several survivors’ groups.
The MPs are expected to order the publication later this week of letters from four barristers – including Hugh Davies QC, ex-deputy lead counsel to the inquiry – detailing their concerns over the conduct and management of the inquiry during the recent crises.
One of the letters is reported to repeat the allegations made by a Labour MP, Lisa Nandy, who used parliamentary privilege to name the senior counsel to the inquiry, Ben Emmerson, QC, as the person accused of an alleged sexual assault at the inquiry’s London headquarters. It is believed to criticise the inquiry’s handling of the sexual assault allegation.
Emmerson, who has been suspended from the inquiry, has denied the allegations as “categorically untrue” while the inquiry has said that no official complaint of sexual assault has been made.
The home affairs committee is not expected to call for the inquiry to be closed down but a clear cross-party statement calling for Jay to be replaced by a judge and for its scope to be scaled back could prove highly influential.
Nandy secured an urgent Commons question on Monday over the latest developments surrounding the inquiry including the withdrawal of the 600-strong Shirley Oaks survivors’ association – the largest group represented at the inquiry.
In their resignation statement on Friday the group, which represents survivors of child sex abuse at Shirley Oaks care home in Lambeth, south London, said the inquiry had become “an unpalatable circus which has stumbled and lurched from crisis to crisis”.
In the Commons, Sarah Newton, a junior Home Office minster, said the government remained confident that Jay was the right person to take it forward. She said that Shirley Oaks was only one of the victims’ groups represented at the inquiry and appealed to them to re-engage. “I am confident, as is the prime minister, as is the home secretary, in the ability of Professor Jay to lead this inquiry,” Newton told MPs. “She has a distinguished career in social work and a longstanding dedication to child protection.
“She led the independent inquiry into child sexual exploitation in Rotherham, where she scrutinised the work of social workers, and proved her capability to uncover failings across institutions and professions. She is the right person to take this work forward.”
But Nandy said it was the last chance for ministers to get a grip: “They have lost seven senior lawyers, three chairs and several survivors’ groups and it is now impossible to see that this inquiry is still [operating] effectively.
“This may be the last chance that the prime minister and her home secretary have to rescue the inquiry that she set up, from collapse. Will she now stop hiding behind the smokescreen of independence (and) recognise that she has responsibility for this inquiry’s success and get a grip on it?”
She found support from the shadow home secretary, Diane Abbott, who said the inquiry’s independent status did not mean that the Home Office could take no responsibility at all and allow the inquiry to run into the sands.
Justice Duncan Ouseley’s ruling may result in the release from detention centres of hundreds of asylum seekers who have been tortured
Jim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group, criticises the government’s plans to tackle children’s exposure to pornography on the internet by telling us that they will put the UK in the same bracket as Turkey and Saudi Arabia (Pornography sites face UK block under enhanced age controls, theguardian.com, 19 November).
If that were true – which it isn’t – we have been there since at least 2002, when the court of appeal made clear in R v Perrin that, absent age verification, pornography publishers on the internet were liable to prosecution.
However, since that decision there have been no cases, because all of the offending sites are based overseas. The government proposals are therefore simply a practical and pragmatic attempt to make it possible for our pre-existing laws to be enforced.
They will not interfere with any adult’s right to view pornography but they may detain someone for a few seconds while they prove they are over 18. A familiar and not a major hardship.
John Carr
London
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
The UK’s most senior judge, Lord Neuberger, has announced he will retire next summer and signalled the launch of a judicial appointments process that could – through offering flexible working practices – improve diversity on the supreme court bench.
Confirming his departure, Neuberger, the president of the court, who is now 68, said that six new justices would be appointed over the next 18 months. 
There are normally 12 members of the supreme court. Only one, Lady Hale, the deputy president, is a woman. All are white. Only two of the present justices were not privately educated.
Criticism of the composition of the judiciary has been mounting due to the fact that there are still relatively few senior female judges and only five high court judges from ethnic minority backgrounds. The justice secretary, Liz Truss, has pledged to introduce measures to improve diversity on the benches.
In a speech to the Bar Council on Monday evening, Neuberger confirmed that he and Lord Clarke, another supreme court justice, would step down next summer. Lord Toulson retired in July but has not yet been replaced. Lords Hughes, Mance and Sumption will leave in 2018.
In an attempt to improve diversity, Neuberger said there would be half-day “insight sessions” offered to prospective candidates where they would be given a tour of the court, allowed to spend time observing proceedings, and offered a private meeting with a current supreme court justice.
The appointments will be in two batches of three positions each, to improve the chances of recruiting from a wider background. Information on “flexible working” would be offered in the job information pack for the first time.
Neuberger said that he and Hale “wanted to have two composite recruitment competitions, one starting early next year to recruit three new justices, and the other starting in the first half of 2018 to recruit another three new justices”. 
“This has the advantages of much better use of time,” he said, “and much less of a burden on candidates. Even more importantly, it improves the prospect of a more diverse and more coherent recruitment to the court.
“The higher echelons of the judiciary in the United Kingdom suffer from a marked lack of diversity and here I must admit the supreme court does not score at all well. 
“We have one white woman and 10 white men, and, although two of the 11 were not privately educated, none of us come from disadvantaged backgrounds.” 
Candidates are chosen on merit, but where there are two candidates of an equal standard there is provision for the one from a less represented background to be the one selected.
The post of lord chief justice, currently held by Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, is also likely to fall vacant next year. Judges have to retire at the age of 70 unless appointed before 1995.
Among the women whose names have been suggested as possible candidates for promotion is Lady Justice Hallett, an appeal court judge.
Welcoming Neuberger’s announcement, Truss said: “The supreme court makes an immense contribution to our constitution, hearing cases of the utmost importance that impact upon the entire population. It is right that such a crucial institution taps into all the talents of our country. 
“That is why I wholeheartedly support the steps the court is taking to introduce a more flexible and open appointment process for supreme court 
