As Friday’s paper had it: “MPs last night accused judges of failing to read the £9m taxpayer-funded publicity leaflet that stated the referendum result would be followed directly by ministers.” Wait – MPs accused judges of failing to read a leaflet? Did they also accuse them of failing to follow the rules of Bootcamp? Can we settle this with an immunity task/a sing-off in the karaokosseum/ a catfight between the leaflet and the bus? Also: didn’t the Daily Mail watch the shows? The mean judge is always a Brit – and in this case, there are three of them. Can’t at least one of these leaflet-shunners be replaced by X Factor judge – and Brexiteer – Sharon Osbourne?
Having banged on about their failure to remotely understand what they were asking for at the time, I do have to offer another slow handclap for the generation of politicians such as Gordon Brown – a man so obsessed with the X Factor that he once wrote personal letters to the finalists – who were forever on about wanting “an X Factor politics”. Newsflash, Gordon: this is what X Factor politics looks like. Try not to choke on it!
Now his ratings are on the slide, Cowell can at least take comfort that his plan to “give politics the X Factor” has come to pass. “The fact we’re allowing the public to make the decisions most of the time is a really good thing,” Cowell once mused of his various shows. “The great thing is when you start seeing it in places like China and Afghanistan. It’s democracy. We’ve kinda given democracy back to the world.” Man, he had it all figured out, didn’t he? A bit like his best mate Philip Green – whose report into government efficiency concluded that running the vast and complex machinery of the state was akin to retail – Cowell’s reputation as a man with the answer to everything is likely to oxidise rapidly.
Cameron, he reckoned, was a man of “substance” with “the stomach to navigate us through difficult times”.
In the end, it’s amazing – considering how histrionic and uncivilised many found it at the time – quite how rule-abiding and righteous reality TV now looks compared to actual reality. There were parameters on the shows, even on many of the ghastlier ones. I mean, at least soundstages were frequently equipped with lie detectors. Imagine how much better this US election would have been with a polygraph. Imagine how much better the referendum campaign would have been with a polygraph. Imagine how much better both would have been if politicians had been bleeped and called into the producers when they said something racist.
Please don’t take all this as the view from above. It is hardly a matter of pride, but I suspect I am as unwittingly, hopelessly addicted to the horrifyingly debased dramas of today’s politics as many others. I used to watch lots of reality shows, but they haven’t done it for me for years now. Maybe the hit I used to get off their dramas and conflicts – was it dopamine? – requires a bigger stimulus. In the mad fever dream of the US election and the increasingly frightening divisions of Brexit, both amplified by social media, maybe I and countless others have found it. This used to be the way we watched. Now it’s the way we seek to govern; the way we govern; the way we live.
The rule of law is the bedrock of a democratic society. It can check corruption and abuses of power. It permits individuals to order their lives. It allows private corporations, public bodies and the executive to regulate effectively their own activities. If the rule of law is to be upheld, it is vital that there should be an independent judiciary. This fact appears lost on Brexiter rabble-rousers. This voluble, influential political sect has unleashed gales of fury on the high court judges who ruled that only parliament has the authority to trigger article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, the legal route for Britain to leave the EU. Leading the charge are rightwing newspapers, which claim themselves to be champions of free speech and traditional British liberties. Yet since the Brexit vote they have sought to delegitimise their opponents’ views and silence them through intimidation. This morning these newspapers laced racial innuendo with accusations of treachery, casting themselves as representatives of the people against unelected “out of touch” judges and their “loaded foreign elite” remainer acolytes.
This is rhetoric that goes beyond character assassination and rightwing posturing into something darker and more dangerous. Remember, we are only months away from the gunning down of a pro-remain MP in broad daylight. During the course of this case, the bench – headed by the lord chief justice – was compelled to remind the gallery that threats against the claimants would be taken as contempt of court. The hysterical, and frankly ludicrous, response to the ruling was to claim that the judges’ decision had sparked a crisis akin to that faced by Winston Churchill during world war two when he called on Britons to “fight them on the beaches”. This intolerance threatens to undermine political freedom and judicial independence. No court is infallible. One can dissent from judgments without trying, via newsprint and social media, to shatter a nation’s confidence in judges as impartial guardians of the rule of law. Judges don’t do opinions unless they are legal ones. Hence the need for politicians to speak up.
So we ask: where is the prime minister in all this? Has she lost sight of the obvious – that the rule of law requires that the courts have jurisdiction to scrutinise the actions of government to ensure that they are lawful? Where, pray, is the lord chancellor, Liz Truss, who – as former office-bearer Charles Falconer notes – has a constitutional duty to defend the judges? The government will have its appeal heard in the supreme court next month. Unless ministers make clear their support for the judiciary, it looks as if the government is colluding to try to cow the highest courts in the land. The high court used Jacobean case law – “the King by his proclamation or other ways cannot change any part of the common law, or statute law, or the customs of the realm” – to spike the government case that ministers have a right to invoke article 50 under the royal prerogative. The citizen must be able to challenge the executive before an independent judiciary. Because it is the executive that exercises the power of the state and because it is the executive which is a frequent litigator in the courts, it is from executive pressure or influence that judges require particularly to be protected. By standing by, ministers are encouraging mobocracy to overwhelm the rule of law.
Now the members of the demagogic right are demonstrating that they are not only a threat to our economic wellbeing but our constitutional settlement (Scotland weighs up whether to join in article 50 legal fight, 4 November). When Nigel Farage threatens those parliamentarians who delay or block Brexit with public anger (which he will do his best to provoke), he is denying parliament the right to hold the executive to account. He has no understanding of the role of the MP as the representative of the people and not its delegate (as defined by Edmund Burke) which until now was regarded as the correct understanding of the role of the MP. Britain is a representative or parliamentary democracy, not one ruled by plebiscite which is more characteristic of authoritarian states, such as Hitler’s Third Reich.
When Ukip’s Suzanne Evans demands the sacking of the judges, she is undermining the independence of the judiciary, yet another of the bulwarks intended to prevent the arbitrary exercise  of power by governments. Politicians such as these when they speak of the will of the people are using it as a means of removing from the constitution all those elements that they don’t like, in particular those that protect the rights of minorities, in this case the 48% who voted remain. The Brexit debate is no longer just a debate on EU membership but a fight to retain those elements of the British constitution that make it a liberal democracy.
Derrick Joad
Leeds
• The Burkean philosophy quoted by your correspondent (Letters 3 November) is the root of arrogance and self-righteousness of some members of parliament. Burke’s flowery language can be reduced to ignoring your constituents’ wishes if they do not accord with the representative’s enlightened conscience entrusted by providence. Messianic zeal should have no place in a secular society.
Steve Simmons
Camberley, Surrey
• The death threats made to Gina Miller are both scandalous and extremely worrying coming so soon after the tragic death of Jo Cox. Such scurrilous comments, bordering on xenophobia, should be refuted by our free press and not encouraged as we have seen from the rightwing press, describing the high court judges who ruled in the article 50 case as “the enemies of the people”. Upholding the rule of law is at the cornerstone of our democracy and the judges involved have done just that. The true “enemies of the people” are those who rail so provocatively against them.
George Longstaff
Bidford-on-Avon
• The argument about whether parliament or the prime minister should trigger article 50 clouds another issue: that article 50 is impossible to use. Under article 50, the other 27 member states can present an ultimatum, since the UK’s membership will automatically cease after two years. Worse, even if a compromise is reached, it has to be approved by the European parliament. If MEPs reject the agreement, the UK will still have to leave. Thus, the 27 cannot credibly commit. The setup imposed by article 50 makes negotiation impossible. Invoking article 50 is close to unconditional surrender before negotiations have begun.
Hopefully, parliament will have sense enough to see the futility of negotiating without any leverage and rule out the use of article 50. And hopefully, EU leaders and leaders of other member states will realise that their commitment not to negotiate before article 50 is invoked is not credible. A deal has to be struck, and it is pointless to demand that the UK surrenders all weapons before the fight has even begun.
Brexit can mean anything. Just as the British crown has all sorts of arrangements with its various affiliated nations – the constituent nations of Great Britain, Northern Ireland, crown dependencies, etc – so can the EU have a variety of arrangements with the UK, possibly with special provisions for Scotland. This needs to be achieved by a treaty change or by some other means, instead of through the unusable article 50.
Mikael Sandström
Saltsjöbaden, Sweden
• Steve Flatley (Letters, 3 November) suggests, perhaps tongue in cheek, that the government could appeal to the European court if they lose their article 50 case in the supreme court. I can’t see that it’s been pointed out yet that the supreme court must refer the case. The reasoning of the high court in deciding that the crown prerogative cannot be used proceeded from the initial assumption, agreed by the parties to the case as “common ground”, that notice of withdrawal under article 50 cannot be revoked. This is a matter of interpretation of article 50, and as the final court of appeal, the supreme court will be obliged to refer the case to the European court of justice under Article 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
Peter Roderick
Barrister and senior research fellow, Queen Mary, University of London
• What a shambles. Cameron takes a bill to parliament to have a referendum he expects to vote remain to see off Ukip. The entire scrutiny process of the passage of the bill fails to ask whether this is our MPs’ last say in the matter. So now our learned friends are making a pretty penny at our expense sorting out what I thought we paid our MPs to do. The only good thing is Nigel Farage being so cross that a British court has made a decision.
John Beer
Farnham, Surrey
• The day after Sir John Chilcot, before a parliamentary committee, criticised Tony Blair because on several occasions between 2002 and 2007 “things were decided without reference to cabinet”, the high court rules that government does not have the power it claimed to trigger article 50 without consulting parliament. Prime ministers should not have to be told these things.
Adrian Betham
London
• The government should accept that parliament must have the right to debate and vote on the outcome of Brexit negotiations once these have been conducted. Conversely parliament should accept that the government is obliged to trigger those negotiations and that in doing so it is taking its instructions from the people.
Roderick McCallum
Annan, Dumfriesshire
• The talk is all of early elections. What happened to the Fixed-term Parliaments Act? Is it to be scrapped at the first sign of inconvenience to the party in power?
Bernard Besserglik
Pantin, France
• I am a pro-European. My issue with the court judgment is thus more one of efficiency than principle. International negotiations are complex and thus can only be a crown prerogative. On that same principle the deployment of British forces can only be a crown prerogative as parliamentary involvement can only forewarn those on the other side, like Isis terrorists.
John Barstow
Pulborough West Sussex
• No, IDS. The court did not tell parliament how to do its job. It told parliament to do its job.
John Lambert
Hope Valley, Derbyshire
The Brexit-supporting press has mounted a vicious assault on the three high court judges who ruled in the article 50 case. And it has undermined our constitution in the process. The government appears to be fuelling this attack. Sajid Javid, the local government secretary, described the judges as seeking to “thwart the will of the people”.
The judiciary is a pillar of our constitution. Allow faith in the judges to be eroded and that pillar is eroded at a huge cost to our freedoms.
The front page of the Daily Mail labelled the three judges “enemies of the people”. It described Sir Terence Etherton as the first “openly gay” judge, detailed Sir Philip Sales’ earnings when he was a barrister and worked for the government and captioned a photograph of the third judge “The Europhile: Lord Chief Justice Thomas”. The Sun and the Daily Telegraph stooped to spraying abuse with the same lack of concern for the constitutional place of the judiciary in our democracy.
Our judges do not do politics. They do law. They are selected to be judges on their legal ability. Their political allegiance is irrelevant and plays no part in their selection – which is not, for example, the case in the US. The judges of the American supreme court, when confronted with the choice of Al Gore or George Bush in the 2000 election, which was contested in the courts, each came down on the side of the party that had nominated them. So Bush won because there were more Republican-nominated judges than Democratic. One of the things that has made the UK such a strong player in the global economy is that politics does not affect the rule of law or the decisions of our courts. This attracts business to the UK, because people know court rulings will not be influenced by politics.
The British public continues to have confidence in the independence and quality of judges. But both are undermined by this Brexit-inspired media vitriol. The attitude of the Brexiters seems to be: who cares about constitutional protections such as that which prevents the executive from just removing people’s rights on the prime minister’s say-so, and undermining casually the authority of judges? It is intensely damaging and sets up yet another conflict: judges against the people.
We must leave the EU in accordance with the referendum vote. But we must take care not to damage our constitutional framework in the process. Democracy and the rule of law are the two pillars of our constitution.
There is very little doubt, when you read this judgment, that the judges have loyally obeyed their judicial oath and decided the case in accordance with the law and the facts. The principle that citizens have legal rights that cannot be taken away on the say-so of the executive without parliamentary authority was not in dispute. The question the judges had to decide was the extent to which rights given by the European Communities Act of 1972 were an exception to that principle. The court concluded unsurprisingly that these rights, which had been incorporated into our domestic law, weren’t an exception, and they cited previous cases stretching back decades, which made that clear. The ruling did not say there should be no Brexit or that Brexit should be delayed, but that Brexit must be done constitutionally not unconstitutionally. As a piece of legal reasoning it is firmly rooted both in accepted principle and decided cases. The decision reaffirms well known principles and applies them to Brexit in an authoritative way.
Yet the quality and impartiality of the judgment appears to cut no ice with either the Brexit media or some elements of the government. We trust our judges to uphold the law and the constitution impartially. This impartiality depends on judges not expressing views, so they can’t defend themselves. That’s why the government has an obligation to defend them and why the constitution places a duty on the lord chancellor to do so.
The government needs to make it clear that they dissociate themselves from these attacks and come to the defence of the judges. Ministers need to make it clear that they do not doubt for one minute either the integrity of the three judges, or that the judges have given what they believe to be the correct answer.
They should make it clear that the judges have in no way acted undemocratically or in opposition to the people, and that attacks on their integrity and attempts to undermine them personally are factually unfounded and undermine our country.
There is a world of difference between judicial decisions that have political consequences, as this one does, and decisions that are motivated by wanting a political outcome – which this one is not. To create a sense that the government is at odds with the judiciary and that judges are somehow in a different political camp from the government is both wrong and damaging.
The lord chancellor, Liz Truss, has a constitutional duty to defend the judges. She needs to make it clear immediately that the government has no quarrel with the judges and has total confidence in them. Disagreement with the judges is dealt with by appeal not by abuse. So far Truss has been completely silent, no doubt waiting for guidance from a prime minister who appears so mesmerised by the fear of what the public may do or think that she is willing to throw constitutional propriety overboard.
Truss’s silence feeds the sense that the government is either hopeless at avoiding conflict or couldn’t care less about the constitution.
Judges' actions around the world show they are no enemy of the people
Moroccans must rebel against the country’s “medieval laws”, the winner of France’s top literary prize has declared, following the arrest of two teenage girls who were caught kissing.
Leïla Slimani, who this week became the first Moroccan woman to win the prestigious Prix Goncourt for her novel Chanson Douce (Sweet Song), lambasted her homeland’s human rights record and the way women are treated.
A joint statement from about 20 human rights groups said the girls, aged 16 and 17, were badly beaten by their families after being filmed by a neighbour with a mobile phone kissing on the roof of a house in Marrakesh last week.
The statement said the pair, identified only by their first names, Sanaa and Hajar, were denied food for three days by the police who then forced one of them to sign a statement before releasing them on Thursday.
“The humiliation of citizens, the way they are kept down, encourages a political system based on disdain, humiliation and the abuse of power,” Slimani told France Inter radio.
“I think it is time people took this in hand and rebelled. The laws in Morocco are completely medieval, completely disconnected from reality … they ban sex outside marriage, homosexuality and adultery,” said the 35-year-old, whose award-winning novel is based on a real-life case of a nanny in the US accused of killing two children she was looking after.
The Moroccan Association of Human Rights has appointed a lawyer to defend the girls who, if convicted, could be imprisoned for between six months and three years. “We shouldn’t be hypocrites. Moroccans have sex lives outside marriage, and it’s good that there are homosexuals,” the author said.
Slimani, who raised eyebrows at home with her debut novel last year about a female nymphomaniac, said the oppression women suffered had nothing to do with religion.
“Lots of imams and enlightened theologians will explain that to you … It is a question of human rights, sexual rights, the right to dignity and in particular the dignity of women’s bodies.”
Slimani said a woman should not just be regarded as “a mother, nor a sister, nor a wife, but as a woman, an individual with their own rights”.
Torn between religious conservatism and opening up to the west, the overwhelmingly Muslim north African country has been the centre of a series controversies over moral issues in recent years.
Do you eat Nutella by the spoonful? Or just spread it on toast?
The answer to that question might seem like an intensely private matter, but it is one that is currently being studied by regulators at the US Food and Drug Administration, which is asking consumers how much of the famous Italian nut-cocoa concoction they eat, in an attempt to determine whether Nutella is a “spread” or a “topping”.
The answer could lead to a change in how Nutella is labeled in the US – which in turn could make it more attractive to calorie-conscious consumers.
Ferrero, the multibillion-euro behemoth Italian confectionery company behind Nutella, has launched an effort in Washington to change Nutella’s current designation, which was established in 1993.
Under current rules, Nutella is considered a “dessert topping”, along with fruits, syrups, spreads, marshmallow cream, nuts and dairy and non-dairy whipped toppings. Critically for Nutella, the designation, which the FDA said was based on a 1991 consumer survey that showed a “significant” number of respondents used Nutella as a dessert topping for ice cream, meant that the average serving size was considered to be two tablespoons.
The product’s US label lists that this estimated serving size contains 11 grams of fat, or 17% of the daily recommended value, and 200 calories.
If Ferrero gets its way, the FDA will soon change Nutella’s designation so that the “nut cocoa-based spread” is regulated in the same way as honey, jams, jellies, fruit butter and molasses. The average portion size for those is one tablespoon. The change would therefore reduce by 50% the amount of fat and calories listed on Nutella’s US nutritional label.
The UK, France and Australia, among others, use the one tablespoon as an average serving size.
Nutella, which is made with sugar, palm oil, hazelnuts and cocoa, has also provided the FDA with its own research suggesting that most people consumed about one tablespoon every time they ate Nutella, and that in about half of those occasions, it was eaten with bread. Ferrero cited a 2012 survey of 722 Nutella consumers that showed just 6% eat Nutella on its own.
According to public documents listed on www.regulations.gov, Ferrero has been lobbying for the change since 2014 with the help of its attorneys, Washington law firm Hogan Lovells. A May letter from the law firm to the FDA requesting a meeting on the issue was signed by Joseph Levitt, a Hogan Lovells partner who previously served as the director of FDA’s Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition.
In Italy, Nutella is ubiquitous, used both as a spread on bread, but also as a filling in flakey cornetti, Italy’s version of croissants, in cookies, cakes and ice cream.
In its coverage of the news, La Repubblica said a final decision would be made in two months “and the pounds gained, accordingly”.
On Thursday Gina Miller won her case against the British government in the high court. The court agreed with her that the government acting alone cannot trigger article 50 – the mechanism by which the UK starts the process of leaving the EU.
Many people, including the national press, have characterised this ruling as a subversion of democracy and a violation of the will of the people. The truth is the opposite.
The government’s position is that it is legally able to trigger article 50 using the royal prerogative. The royal prerogative constitutes the powers the monarch used to have, and which are now enacted through the government of the day. It has long been an established part of the UK’s unwritten constitution that the royal prerogative cannot be used to make or alter the law made by parliament.
Miller’s position is that the royal prerogative cannot be used to trigger article 50 because, as the government agreed, the triggering of article 50 inevitably would result in fundamental rights enacted by parliament being swept aside once the withdrawal process is completed.
This removal of rights would happen regardless of whether or not the government has been successful in negotiating a withdrawal agreement, and without the say of parliament.
The most fundamental rule of the UK constitution is that parliament is the supreme law-making entity in the UK. It can make or undo any law. Neither the courts, nor the government acting alone, can overrule the legislation of parliament. That is what the government was seeking to do – and why this ruling is so important. The court has upheld the fundamental principle that laws parliament has enacted cannot be swept away by the government.
Parliament did vote on the European Union Referendum Act 2015, which was a short piece of legislation establishing only that a referendum would be held on whether the UK should remain a member of the EU. This was the question put to the British electorate, and on which the conclusion was reached that Britain should leave.
Neither the British people nor parliament have, however, voted on what form that leaving should take, or on which fundamental rights will be removed as a result of leaving. Those are questions that can be decided only by our sovereign parliament.
This ruling is a victory for democracy. It upholds the fundamental principle of our democracy: that laws enacted by parliament cannot be undone by a government acting through the royal prerogative. For the court to hold otherwise would have given the government free rein to sweep away any legislation it did not agree with and remove the power of parliament as the maker of our laws. This would have torn up the established principle of parliamentary sovereignty, which has been the most important part of our constitution since 1610. Gina Miller’s case is a victory for process over politics.
The three judges who ruled that the UK government would have to pass an act of parliament before it could trigger article 50 to leave the EU have come in for intense criticism domestically.
But in examples from around the world this week, the judiciary has been on the frontline in the defence of freedom. Far from being seen as the enemy of the people, judges are often viewed as their most trusted allies.
An independent judiciary can be a last bulwark against corruption, press censorship and an overweening executive, whereas a weakened judiciary subjected to political influence gives governments a free hand.
In Hong Kong, for instance, many people hope the judiciary will help their fight against Beijing’s growing encroachment on the city’s autonomy. A judge there will shortly rule on whether two young pro-democracy politicians who have refused to swear an oath of allegiance to Chinese rule can be recognised as legislators.
The judgment will determine the independence of the legislature, assuming the Chinese government does not in effect overrule the courts.
In South Africa, a country still learning to love its constitution, high court judges and the former public protector Thuli Madonsela have played a key role in exposing corruption allegations against the president, Jacob Zuma, and the ruling ANC party. This week Zuma dropped his opposition to the publication of a report by Madonsela that recommends a commission of inquiry headed by a judge be set up within 30 days to investigate alleged influence peddling in government.
Similarly, in Zimbabwe, independent judges have repeatedly challenged Robert Mugabe’s efforts to ban public demonstrations.
In Brazil a federal judge, Sérgio Moro, could topple the recently installed president, Michel Temer. Moro has become the public face of the battle to uncover corruption across Brazil. He ordered the arrest of four members of the senate’s own internal police force, who have been accused of obstructing an investigation into the Petrobras scandal.
In India, journalists and media organisations are asking judges to intervene after the government was accused of censorship reminiscent of the country’s 1970s emergency. A network was ordered off the air over its reporting of an attack by Pakistan-based militants.
In an example of the dangers of a non-independent judiciary, Venezuela’s supreme court, which is controlled by government sympathisers, this week allowed President Nicolás Maduro to remove budgetary authority from the congress, the country’s main source of political opposition.
And in Turkey, where opposition MPs were arrested early on Friday, the chances of judges intervening are slim. A law passed this year has gutted the bulk of the judiciary. A total of 3,700 judges have been arrested or prosecuted. MPs have lost their immunity from prosecution and press censorship has been imposed.
Meanwhile, the rightwing attack on the British judiciary comes at a time when the role of Britain as an international legal beacon is under pressure. Theresa May in her brief leadership campaign may have shelved plans to remove Britain from the European convention on human rights and introduce a British bill. But the persistence of the attack on the ECHR by ministers has had an impact.
Equally, the government has removed a reference in the ministerial code to the requirement that ministers comply with international law. The government said it was merely an innocent tidying-up process, but it comes at a time when the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, frequently makes reference to plans to bring Russian or Syrian perpetrators of war crimes to justice in international courts.
Moreover, the current attorney general, Jeremy Wright, like his predecessor, Dominic Grieve, underlines “the intense public scrutiny that the UK’s government actions attract on the world stage and the importance of international law to both frame and defend those actions.”
With African nations from South Africa to Gambia rushing to leave the international criminal court, it is arguably even more important that British ministers, starting with the lord chancellor, Liz Truss, speak out to defend the rule of law, as is their statutory duty, rather than through silence connive in judicial intimidation.
For all its faults, the UK judiciary is seen as fair and predictable. It is the international gold standard, and one of the key sources of the UK’s soft power.
The refusal of the lord chancellor, Liz Truss, to defend three senior judges from “the vitriol” of sustained media attacks following the Brexit judgment has been condemned by Lord Falconer, who previously held the post.
The former Labour cabinet minister asked why Truss, who is also justice secretary, remained silent in the face of personal denunciations in the rightwing, pro-Brexit papers. 
The Daily Mail described the judges – the lord chief justice, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, the master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton, and Lord Justice Sales – as “enemies of the people”. 
The Daily Telegraph carried front-page pictures of them with the headline: “The judges versus the people.” Their judgment on Thursday declared that only parliament has the legal power to trigger article 50, which would initiate Brexit.
Writing in the Guardian, Lord Falconer, who was lord chancellor between 2003 and 2007, said: “The British public continues to have confidence in the independence and quality of judges. But both are undermined by this Brexit-inspired media vitriol.
“The lord chancellor, Liz Truss, has a constitutional duty to defend the judges. She needs to make it clear immediately the government has no quarrel with the judges and has total confidence in them. 
“Disagreement with the judges is dealt with by appeal not by abuse. Liz Truss’s silence feeds the sense the government is either hopeless at avoiding conflict or couldn’t care less about the constitution.”
Labour’s justice spokesman, Richard Burgon MP, also urged Truss, to uphold the independence of the judiciary in the face of “hysterical headlines … Some of the headlines in today’s newspapers personally attacking the judges who heard this case are unacceptable,” he said.
“As lord chancellor, Liz Truss should not stay silent. It is the lord chancellor’s job to uphold the independence of British judges and she must speak out urgently against the hysterical headlines of some papers and these attacks on British justice.”
The Liberal Democrat leader, Tim Farron, said: “Where is Liz Truss? Her job is to uphold the rule of law and defend the judiciary and yet she is utterly silent while judges are being attacked by some newspapers. Our hard-fought rights and freedoms are protected by the law, British law that the Brexiteers claim that they wish to uphold.”
Truss is under a statutory obligation to defend the independence of the judiciary, the solicitor and legal blogger David Allen Green has pointed out. Section 3(6) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 sets out the lord chancellor’s duty to protect judicial independence.
Asked whether Truss wished to comment, the Ministry of Justice said she would not be making a statement. 
The prime minister’s spokesman refused to condemn the language, saying: “I don’t think the British judiciary is being undermined.” He added: “I’m not commenting on newspaper coverage.”
Brendan Cox, widower of the Labour MP Jo Cox, cautioned against allowing the tone of the debate about Thursday’s judgment to become too febrile.
He tweeted: “Whatever our views on the court ruling I hope we can take a step back & debate it soberly. Inciting hatred has consequences.” Jo Cox, who represented the Batley and Spen constituency, was killed in the run-up to the EU referendum.
During the high court Brexit case the claimants challenging the ministers’ right to trigger Brexit received death threats and online abuse. 
The term “enemies of the people”, coined in Roman times, was adopted by Robespierre during the French Revolution and was later favoured by Lenin and the Bolsheviks.
Politicians from the three main parties leapt to the defence of the judges. A former attorney general, Dominic Grieve, expressed alarm at attacks on the judiciary. “They are entirely unjustified and are either made in ignorance or out of malice, it’s impossible to know which,” he said.
“The judges are the safeguarders of our unwritten constitution. Nothing they have done ought to take anybody by surprise. To accede to the principle that you can change primary legislation by royal prerogative is a constitutional monstrosity and would totally undermine everything that our forebears struggled to give us. It would trash the constitution.”
The Conservative chair of the Commons justice select committee, Bob Neill, and Anna Soubry MP, a barrister, also condemned the headlines. She described the coverage in a tweet as: “Hysterical, dangerously inaccurate & bullying”.
Jonathan Marks, the Liberal Democrat justice spokesman, said: “The headlines in much of the press today and the anti-judge rhetoric from some politicians is extremely worrying. This hostility to the rule of law is irresponsible; the personal attacks on judges are plain nasty.
“British citizens won our freedoms from the tyranny of the crown painfully and over many centuries. The rights of minorities to think as they will, to live at peace and to claim the protection of the law against an over-mighty state are at stake here.”
Lord Macdonald of River Glaven QC, a former director of public prosecutions, said: “These are risible and constitutionally illiterate attacks from politicians who should know better. The high court has reaffirmed the sovereignty of parliament within the rule of law. In other words, it has fulfilled precisely its most critical function in a democratic society. The idea that judges would be better employed kowtowing to the executive is shameful heresy from political pygmies.”
Chantal-Aimée Doerries QC, the chair of the Bar Council, which represents barristers across England and Wales, said: “Publicly criticising individual members of the judiciary over a particular judgment or suggesting that they are motivated by their individual views, political or otherwise, is wrong, and serves only to undermine their vital role in the administration of justice.”
The Welsh Assembly announced on Friday that it would seek permission to intervene in the anticipated supreme court hearing in which the government will appeal against the high court ruling. Announcing the Welsh government’s involvement, Mick Antoniw, an assembly member and counsel general for Wales, said he would raise concerns about the impact of Theresa May’s attempt to use royal prerogative powers on the devolved assembly.
When the justice secretary, Liz Truss, launched her white paper on prison reform on 3 November, she referred to another Elizabeth: prison reformer Elizabeth Fry. In the 1800s, Fry campaigned passionately for a more human system and her spirit continues today, in more than 1,500 charities that are equally passionate. If she wants to reform the system, Truss has to place the voluntary sector front and centre.
The sector’s achievements include creating the probation service, introducing prison visiting, independent inspection of prisons, and ending the death penalty. It started the first service to support people’s re-entry into society in 1921. From the chaos of the Strangeways riots in the early 1990s we saw the emergence of proper family services. The pioneering work of the Young Review and organisations like the Trust, founded following the death of Zahid Mubarak, have tackled racism in our system head-on.
But reform can’t be the exclusive domain of the voluntary sector – we need to work with government. These prison reforms provide an opportunity for change that we need to grab with both hands.
It’s positive to hear there will be 2,500 more prison staff. Prisons are unsafe for staff and prisoners alike. Too much of the time, cells are locked and people can’t get the support they so desperately need.
But before we get these new staff on the wings, the real challenge is understanding what a prison officer should – and shouldn’t – do. This is the time to consider how those staff could work as part of a multi-disciplinary team to turn around lives and address the complex needs experienced by the majority of people in prison.
Empowering prison governors, allowing them to shape their services locally and adapt their regime to the needs of the people in their care, makes sense. But they shouldn’t have to do that alone. They should work with the expertise in the voluntary sector, making prisons think beyond their walls and reaching out into communities.
There’s an opportunity to bring back the strategic coordination of voluntary agencies in every prison, really capitalising on the goodwill and enthusiasm of the sector. There is a lot more in the reforms of huge interest for charities, including the commitment to better education, cracking down on drugs, and the welcome announcement that there will be new smaller custodial units for women. There are also things that still need attention, such as how we stem the tide of people going into prison in the first place. This requires us to look seriously at sentencing as well as how we divert people away by using well-evidenced alternatives to custody.
There needs to be a whole system view – diversion, sentencing, prison experience, but crucially how prisons and probation link with the ecosystem of support in our communities to rehabilitate and resettle people effectively. The most recent public service reform in probation showed us that the voluntary sector can easily be left behind or be taken for granted.
These reforms need to learn from past mistakes and move forward alongside the voluntary sector, utilising its vast experience and expertise. Anything less would be a mistake.
Finally, we can’t forget the most important voices in this debate, those with lived experience of the prison system. The prisoners, their families, men and women from different ethnicities and backgrounds that have passed through prisons. They hold the answers. So far, we haven’t heard their voice in this debate, but we need to.
Anne Fox is chief executive of Clinks, which supports the voluntary and community sector working with offenders in England and Wales.
For more news, opinions and ideas about the voluntary sector, join our community - it’s free!
On Thursday morning, the high court ruled that parliament – and not the prime minister by use of prerogative powers – would need to trigger Article 50 to start the UK’s exit from the European Union.
On Thursday evening, a portion of the British media exercised its own prerogative: to attack the judges behind the ruling.
Some lawyers and legal experts thought “enemies of the people” was perhaps a little over the top:
Others homed in on the finer detail:
How about that fencing, though?
The Telegraph also pits the judges against “the people” and turns them blue, to hammer home an unspecified point:
There are, though, reasons beyond the fact that they’re silly to object to headlines like these:
Mind you, Kelemen is professor of political science and Jean Monnet chair in European Union politics at Rutgers University, New Jersey, and sounds suspiciously like one of those “experts”. As does this Bagehot chap:
Telegraph columnist (but pro-Remainer) Mary Riddell appears to be giving Friday’s edition a miss:
Meanwhile, over in Daily Express-land:
Spare your pinch-zoom fingers; here’s that first paragraph:
It’s not just as bad as the second world war, though, as the Express goes on:
By contrast, the Sun’s take is fairly tame, plumping for the cosy familiarity of foreigners, elites and a blink-and-that’ll-be-funnier-than-actually-seeing-it pun. It’s almost as if they don’t genuinely believe that Brexit has been blocked after all.
The number of workers taking claims of unfair dismissal or discrimination to employment tribunals has slumped since charges came into force, a study has revealed.
Unfair dismissal claims have fallen by 73% and there have been huge reductions in discrimination cases on grounds of sex (71%), race (58%) and disability (54%), since charges of up to £1,200 were introduced, the Trades Union Congress said.
The number of workers taking claims to a tribunal averaged 16,000 a month in 2012-13, but that figure fell to 7,000 in the past year, the TUC said.
The TUC general secretary, Frances O’Grady, said: “These figures show a huge drop in workers seeking justice when they’ve been unfairly treated. Now bosses know they can get away with it, discrimination at work can flourish unchecked and people can be sacked without good reason.
“The evidence is there for all to see. These fees – of up to £1,200, even if you’re on the minimum wage – are pricing out thousands each month from pursuing cases.
“Theresa May has repeatedly said she wants to govern for ordinary working people. Here is a perfect opportunity. She could reverse employment tribunal fees, and make sure workers can challenge bad employers in court.”
The government is being urged to abolish the fees in this month’s autumn statement.
Theresa May is heading for a rebellion over her Brexit strategy after the high court ruled that the UK could not leave the European union without the permission of the British parliament.
Three senior judges ruled on Thursday that the government could not press ahead with triggering article 50 of the Lisbon treaty, the formal process for beginning Brexit, without first consulting MPs and peers in the Commons and Lords.
The decision, made after a legal challenge brought following the EU referendum result in June, is a dramatic setback for the prime minister, who had argued that she had the personal authority to begin the process without a parliamentary vote on the issue.
Downing Street has said they will challenge the judgment and an appeal with the supreme court is expected to be lodged. But David Davis, the Brexit secretary, acknowledged that the ruling (pdf) as it stood meant the UK’s departure from the bloc would require the consent of both MPs and peers through an act of parliament. “The judges have laid out what we can’t do, and not exactly what we can do, but we’re presuming that it requires an act of parliament and therefore both Commons and Lords,” he said.
Parliamentarians are unlikely to block Brexit outright, given that 52% of voters among the public opted, on 23 June, to leave the EU, but the need for legislation gives MPs the opportunity to disrupt the process by demanding May reveals more details about her plan for negotiating the terms of departure.
The Guardian understands that a cross-party group of Tory and Labour MPs met this Thursday afternoon to discuss how the ruling could be used to force May to reveal more about her broad negotiating aims.
Keir Starmer, the shadow Brexit secretary, said he now believed it was “inevitable the prime minister will have to answer the big questions” on whether she wanted the UK to be in the single market or the customs union, as there appeared to be a majority of MPs demanding greater transparency.
“This is about accountability and scrutiny,” he said. “Very many MPs accept and respect the referendum of course, but the terms upon which we exit are vitally important. I think there is now consensus that the prime minister has got to disclose the overarching strategy. The idea that we are all to be kept in the dark until some time in 2019 only has to be said to be rejected.”
May has repeatedly insisted that she will deliver the “best possible deal for the country” but has so far refused to specify whether that deal would include access to the single market or enhanced immigration controls.
Within hours of the judgment senior Conservatives were openly calling for a change of approach. Andrew Tyrie, chair of the Treasury committee, said May’s government needed to be “much more transparent about its objectives in the negotiations, in some detail, and the sooner the better”.
He added: “It should also ensure that parliament can scrutinise the objectives and vote on them. The UK is leaving; a public debate is needed about where we want to arrive. Before taking off, it is always a good idea for the pilot to discuss with the passengers and crew where they might want to land.”
Nicky Morgan, the former education secretary, told BBC Two’s Victoria Derbyshire show: “It does need to be not just a vote, but a formal short bill about the triggering of article 50, and then the focus is on that. The other thing, of course, that parliament will want then is a clearer plan on the government’s Brexit plans and that will be, I think, important in helping the government to win that vote.”
On the other side of the debate the ruling infuriated many eurosceptics, with several Tory MPs suggesting May should call an early general election to get another mandate from voters.
Dominic Raab, the former minister and Tory MP, said any attempt to stall the triggering of Brexit could increase the chances of an early general election. “If we get to the stage where effectively [some MPs] are not willing to allow this negotiation to even begin, I think there must be an increased chance that we must go to the country again. I think that would be a mistake and I don’t think those trying to break the verdict of the referendum would be rewarded,” he said.
Douglas Carswell, the Ukip MP, even suggested it showed there needed to be reform of judicial appointments, while the party’s interim leader, Nigel Farage, said he feared a “betrayal may be near at hand”. He said: “I now fear that every attempt will be made to block or delay the triggering of article 50. If this is so, they have no idea of the level of public anger they will provoke.”
The prime minister is expected on Friday to speak to Jean-Claude Juncker, the European commission president, to discuss her plans for keeping the article 50 process on track.
However, the unanimous judgment delivered by three of the most senior judges in England and Wales will make it difficult for government lawyers to overturn the ruling in the supreme court and avoid delay.
The three judges, the lord chief justice, Lord Thomas, the master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton, and lord justice Sales at one stage dismissed the government’s argument as being “divorced from reality”.
Government lawyers had argued that prerogative powers were a legitimate way to give effect “to the will of the people” who voted by a majority to leave the EU in the referendum. But the lord chief justice declared: “The government does not have power under the crown’s prerogative to give notice pursuant to article 50 for the UK to withdraw from the European union.”
The judgment ruled: “The most fundamental rule of the UK constitution is that parliament is sovereign and can make and unmake any law it chooses ... By making and unmaking treaties the crown [ie the government] creates legal effects on the plane of international law, but in doing so it does not and cannot change domestic law. It cannot without the intervention of parliament confer rights on individuals or deprive individuals of rights.”
The pound surged to a four-week high in the hours after the ruling as investors interpreted it as a sign parliament could put the brakes on any attempt by May to pursue a so-called “hard Brexit” that prioritised controlling immigration over trade with the EU.
Although a related legal challenge failed in Northern Ireland’s high court, the claimants are expected to appeal against that decision, particularly on Brexit’s impact on the devolved legislation. Their claim will be joined at the supreme court hearing with the London case.
Nicola Sturgeon, the SNP first minister of Scotland, said the Scottish government would “actively consider” whether it would formally join in the next legal battle over the right of MPs to vote on article 50, opposing the Westminster government.
The two main claimants in the high court case in London insisted they were not attempting to prevent Brexit. Gina Miller, an investment manager and lead claimant in the case, said: “It was the right decision because we were dealing with the sovereignty of parliament. It was not about winning or losing. It was about what was right. Now we can move forward with legal certainty.”
Deir Dos Santos, a hairdresser and the other lead claimant, said: “Today’s judgment is a victory for everyone who believes in the supremacy of our parliament and the rule of law. I have never challenged the result of the referendum – in fact I voted for Brexit for the sole reason that I wanted power to be returned from Europe to the British parliament. But I did not think it was right for the government then just to bypass parliament and try to take away my legal rights without consulting parliament first.”
Uber is facing the likelihood of several hundred more legal claims from taxi drivers who believe they have been wrongly classed as self-employed and are owed backdated holiday pay and missing wages.
Lawyers for two former drivers who last week won an employment tribunal judgment that they were in fact employed as workers and should therefore benefit from the minimum wage, holiday pay and sick pay, said they were preparing to lodge multiple new cases with the same court.
The US taxi app giant has pledged to appeal against last Friday’s verdict, which was sharply critical of Uber’s treatment of its drivers as self-employed. Nineteen drivers lodged claims and two, Yasseen Aslam and James Farrar, were selected to test the issues in front of the tribunal. Uber is expected to issue proceedings at the court of appeal this month or next.
If successful the new cases could significantly increase Uber’s costs in holiday pay and compensation for underpayment of the minimum wage where it can be proved.
“We have received hundreds of inquiries from Uber drivers who are unhappy with their working conditions and are interested in bringing a claim for back pay of holiday pay and back pay of the national minimum wage,” said Annie Powell, employment lawyer at Leigh Day solicitors.
“We will lodge further employment tribunal claims with the support of the GMB union. It will be exactly the same claim as for the first 19 drivers and we will argue they should be workers rather than self-employed and so should be entitled to workers’ rights.”
Powell said there was no limit to the number of cases it could run. The firm had pursued class actions with over a thousand claimants in other matters. Uber has 40,000 drivers in the UK, but the company insists that according to its own survey, three-quarters of its drivers feel that “being self-employed and being able to choose their own hours is preferable to having things like holiday pay which come with being employed”. Uber argues it does not employ the drivers and that while it charges commission on each fare, the contract is between the driver and passenger.
However, in last Friday’s ruling the tribunal judges dismissed as “faintly ridiculous” Uber’s claim that its London operation was essentially made up of thousands of small businesses linked by a technology platform. Uber resorted to “fictions, twisted language and even brand new terminology” to portray their drivers as self-employed, they said, and ruled that it was “unreal to deny that Uber is in business as a supplier of transportation services”.
“Simple common sense argues to the contrary,” the tribunal ruled.
Uber is resisting the ruling and has told its drivers: “There will be no change to your partnership with Uber in light of this decision and we will continue to support the overwhelming majority of drivers who tell us that they use the Uber app to be their own boss and choose when and where to drive.”
Jo Bertram, Uber’s regional general manager in the UK said in a statement: “Tens of thousands of people in London drive with Uber precisely because they want to be self-employed and their own boss. The overwhelming majority of drivers who use the Uber app want to keep the freedom and flexibility of being able to drive when and where they want.”
Steve Garelick, secretary of the professional drivers branch of the GMB union, said the new claims were evidence that “drivers have finally realised they have a voice”. He said the GMB has received hundreds of calls from Uber drivers seeking advice or support in making a claim.
“I spoke to a driver this week who was so emotional over the fact that finally someone is listening to their plight,” he said. “People have not been able to articulate it before on a larger platform like the tribunal.”
Uber declined to comment on the potential new employment tribunal claims.
Pressure is mounting for a public inquiry into the adoption of hundreds of thousands of babies born to unmarried women over a 30-year period amid claims from some mothers who say they were coerced into handing over their children.
A letter will be sent to the home secretary, Amber Rudd, next week from solicitors at two eminent law firms calling on her to convene a public inquiry into historical adoption practices in the UK. The solicitors say an inquiry would uncover the truth about the practices – stretching over three decades after the end of the second world war – and hold agencies to account.
Meanwhile more women have come forward to tell their stories of being pressured into having their babies adopted.
The call for an inquiry will be sent to Rudd on Thursday, the day after the broadcast of a television documentary relating the stories of several women. That film has prompted an apology from Cardinal Vincent Nichols, head of the Catholic church in England and Wales, and a statement expressing regret from the Church of England. Religious institutions and agencies handled most adoptions until 1976, after which the process became the responsibility of local authorities.
Carolynn Gallwey, of Bhatt Murphy Solicitors, and Karon Monaghan, of Matrix Chambers, are demanding an inquiry to acknowledge the trauma suffered by young vulnerable mothers and the impact on their lives. On a practical level, they say an inquiry could lead to records being made available and professional counselling offered.
“It is the only way to get a proper understanding of what happened and identify any systemic issues which amounted to coercion, whether there were policies – formal or informal – which discouraged young women from keeping their babies,” said Gallwey.
About half a million babies, most born to unmarried women, were adopted in the 1950s, 60s and 70s when the Catholic church, Church of England and the Salvation Army ran “mother and baby homes” and adoption agencies in the UK. Adoption reached a peak in 1968, when more than 16,000 babies born to unmarried mothers were handed over to new families.
In recent years, some women have publicly said they feel they were effectively forced to hand over their babies. Now mostly in their 60s and 70s, they say that as vulnerable young women they were made to feel shame and guilt, and were told that adoption was in the best interests of themselves and their babies.
“There is a very compelling set of facts from a recent period of our history which is still having an impact now,” said Gallwey. An inquiry, she added, could “correct the myth that these women gave away their babies voluntarily”.
She added: “All the women I’ve spoken to say that [the women acted voluntarily] could not be further from the truth. The saddest thing is the number of women who say, ‘no one told me there was another way’. It’s still very raw even after so long.”
The call for a public inquiry was backed by Graham Allen, Labour MP for Nottingham North, who sponsored a parliamentary motion last year calling on the government to apologise for “unacceptable adoption and care practices of the past”.
He said an inquiry “would draw a line for everyone”, adding: “No monetary amount could compensate for what these people have been through, but it could be cathartic and cleansing.”
Veronica Smith, co-founder of the Movement for an Adoption Apology, also backed the call. “We’ve been trying to get something done for years. We want acknowledgement of bad practice – the coercion of often teenage girls into losing their children,” she said.
Now 75, Smith gave birth to a daughter in 1964 who was, she says, taken from her for adoption. “It has coloured the whole of my life,” she said.
She would be willing to testify to an inquiry. “But there are lots of women who can’t even verbalise what happened to them. They are screwed up with pain and shame and guilt. There are thousands who have never come forward, but every time there is publicity on this people make contact wanting to tell their story, often for the first time.”
Among the mothers and adopted children who responded to a Guardian appeal on Thursday was “Linda”, who became pregnant aged 15 in the early 1970s. “It was the ultimate sin. I was so scared that I didn’t tell my parents until it was too late to ‘do’ anything about it, by which time I was about seven months. I had been wearing girdles and starving myself so it wouldn’t show,” she said.
Linda’s parents arranged through a Catholic adoption agency for her to go to a mother and baby home. She said: “A nun came and told me she was just taking my baby [aged about three weeks] to weigh him. That was the last time I saw him. I was absolutely devastated. Within the family we agreed not to ever talk about it and to pretend it never happened ... Every baby I saw on the streets made me want to steal it. I was seriously angry all the time but couldn’t talk about it.”
She added: “It’s my dirty little secret and I admit it has probably poisoned me a bit over the years. I think of it as the punishment that keeps on giving for doing what I did.”
Another woman, “Sandra”, lost her baby to adoption when she was 15, in the early 1970s. She said: “Physical and emotional consequences led me to be sterilised at age 25. I was far too traumatised to face another pregnancy and did not receive adequate health care after the birth, leading to a great deal of pain. I still suffer from PTSD. I grieve for my lost child every day and will do so until I die.”
“Janet” said that her husband had been adopted in 1963 through a Church of England agency. “He was subject to the most awful neglect and abuse mainly at [the adoptive mother’s] hands. There is a lot of emphasis put on the way the [birth] mothers were treated but little said about the fate of those babies that the church felt justified in giving to so-called Christian families,” she said.
Duncan Roy said he had been born in a Catholic mother and baby home in Kent when his mother was 16. “To do penance for the sin of getting pregnant out of wedlock she had to scrub floors every day she was there until I was born. She was verbally and physically abused by the nuns in the home,” the 56-year-old said. “When I was born I was taken away from her, but because I was half-Iranian and a dark baby they couldn’t find anyone to adopt me. Eventually my grandmother decided to take me back and raise me as hers. The whole experience had a huge effect on my mother’s life. She was very badly traumatised by her experiences at the home.”
Britain’s Adoption Scandal: Breaking the Silence will be broadcast on ITV at 9pm on Wednesday 9 November
Lord chief justice says high costs could drive away international business and calls for more courts to become self-financing
An oil executive accused of impersonating Elon Musk in an email in an attempt to solicit company secrets from Tesla wants the lawsuit thrown out because he says his impersonation wasn’t credible.
Todd Katz was the former chief financial officer of Quest Integrity, which provides services to oil and gas companies such as ExxonMobil, BP, Chevron and Shell.
In September, Tesla filed a lawsuit against Katz, claiming he set up the email address elontesla@yahoo.com to impersonate the company’s CEO and then used it to try and extract sensitive information from Tesla chief financial officer Jason Wheeler.
According to the lawsuit, Katz sent an email from the elontesla@yahoo.com account to Wheeler on 3 August 2016 requesting more detailed information about Tesla’s second-quarter financial results that were released on the same day.
Wheeler did not respond and instead Tesla launched an investigation to find out who was behind the email, eventually tracing the address to Katz and his employer.
This week, Katz filed an objection to Tesla’s lawsuit arguing that the company’s reaction has been “over-the-top” and alleging that Tesla hacked into his Twitter in order to identify him.
The filing does not quibble that Katz sent the email but argues that “nobody who received this preposterous and grammatically deficient email ever believed it really came from Elon Musk” and as a result there was no credible impersonation and no direct injury to Tesla.
“It is clear that the email allegedly received by CFO Wheeler on August 3, 2016 was goofy, grammatically deficient communication that was not a ‘credible’ impersonation of Elon Musk in any way,” says the document, filed in the Santa Clara superior court.
Some of the reasons given for the lack of credibility include the use of a Yahoo email account and the “peculiar syntax of the email” that bears no similarity to that of Elon Musk “who is known to be a stickler for grammar and who would never use such atrocious syntax”.
It goes onto suggest that Tesla’s lawsuit is a “heavy-handed attempt to intimidate and silence Mr Katz, a Tesla critic.”
At the same time, Katz has filed a cross-complaint against Tesla for allegedly hacking into a Twitter account – @valuationmattrs – that he uses to criticize Tesla’s business practices. The complaint alleges that as part of Tesla’s investigation the company accessed the account illegally, causing Katz to suffer damages “including loss of earnings and damage to reputation”.
In a statement, a Tesla spokeswoman said: “The oil executive Todd Katz is perfectly capable of embarrassing himself with no help from Tesla. We did not even know that the Twitter pseudonym in question belonged to Mr Katz.
“What we are most interested in discovering is what people or organizations collaborated with Mr Katz in his attempt to gain information illegally from Tesla and who or what companies may have paid him to do so. That is of great concern to us and many members of the public.”
If you’re an ardent remainer hoping the high court judgment is a chink of light that could ultimately result in Britain remaining in the European Union, don’t hold your breath. Brexit itself was not on trial – but Theresa May’s bullish approach to it, and ultimately her political judgment, was.
If the government fails in its bid to have the ruling overturned on appeal, the Brexit secretary, David Davis, has made clear he would put a bill before both houses of parliament, presumably authorising the government to trigger article 50.
But while there are plenty of MPs on both sides of the House of Commons who backed remain during the referendum campaign, and still believe Britain would be better off in, only a handful of diehards now say they want to block Brexit.
One prominent pro-EU MP on the Conservative back benches told the Guardian “almost every one of my colleagues, apart perhaps from Ken Clarke, will vote to trigger article 50”.
In the House of Lords, meanwhile, where there is a strong remain majority, Labour’s leader Baroness Smith says there is little appetite for trying to prevent it. “It’s not a case of the Lords trying to block the government,” she insists.
Instead, parliamentarians in both Houses will seize on the opportunity to force the government to lay out in more detail the principles the government will adopt in the negotiations – and they feel emboldened to do so because of the way the issue has been handled since June.
During the months between taking office and the Conservative party conference, May moved from “Brexit means Brexit” to promising to deliver the best possible deal for the economy, consistent with taking back control of immigration and escaping the jurisdiction of the European court of justice.
But she also hardened up her position on the role parliament should play, or rather not play – insisting she would take the ultimate decision about triggering the two-year divorce process without giving MPs a vote.
It is perhaps too early in May’s premiership to judge how her government will operate, but some in Westminster suggest Thursday’s court judgment – and certainly MPs’ reaction to it – ultimately came about because of a characteristic decision-making style.
Perhaps a lack of boldness – or more charitably, swagger – prevented her from locking in parliament’s approval in her early days in Downing Street, by offering MPs a vote validating the result of the referendum, something it would have been very hard for them to refuse.
David Cameron had said throughout the referendum campaign that he would trigger article 50 immediately if the public voted to leave. May chose to delay, perhaps on the advice of Whitehall civil servants understandably anxious about the scale of the challenge of the negotiations.
But by stringing out the process, while appearing to give MPs and the public as little information as possible about the government’s stance, she has riled many in her own party.
Meanwhile, by carrying out such a sweeping reshuffle when she arrived in No 10, she has peopled the back benches with articulate advocates of a different, more collegiate approach – such as those sacked in the reshuffle, including Nicky Morgan, Anna Soubry and George Osborne, who have all begun to flex their muscles.
There have been other early indicators of a less-than-sure political touch, too: May blundered into a row with the Bank of England’s governor, Mark Carney, by breaking the convention that politicians don’t comment on monetary policy, expressing concerns in her conference speech she had concerns about quantitative easing.
She struck a pose as the champion of the people against big business but watered down Cameron’s planned obesity strategy so radically that even supermarkets said they would have liked tougher regulation.
On Heathrow, she partially suspended cabinet collective responsibility and shelved the idea of an immediate vote for fear of the scale of opposition in her own party. She still lost an MP over it and then chose not to stand a candidate against him. It hardly looks like deft political management.
And over a series of other questions: from Hinkley Point C to Amber Rudd’s language on immigration; to the Orgreave non-inquiry; to the secret Nissan deal; somehow the political dots haven’t quite joined up.
Whitehall insiders say, despite May’s loathing of Cameron’s “chumocracy”, that key decisions are made by a tight clique of close allies and are not always subjected to the test of open, robust debate.
If the supreme court upholds Thursday’s ruling, No 10 has conceded that the “logical conclusion” will be to place a bill on triggering article 50 before both houses of parliament. But to have been dragged into doing so is not a great look. One pro-remain MP muttered darkly yesterday: “At best, she’s been very badly advised.”
The high court’s ruling that the government needs parliament’s approval before invoking article 50 has provoked roars of predictable outrage from the Brexit camp. Cries of “betrayal” and “a war on democracy” swamp Twitter, in a way that suggests that those who campaigned in the name of sovereignty are remarkably reluctant to accept what that sovereignty means. Now the high court has issued a short and forceful corrective that, for the sake of clarity, can be summarised like this: because parliament is sovereign, unrestrained executive power can only be used in matters where parliament has no say. Parliamentary sovereignty means that primary legislation, like the act that subordinated some UK law to Europe’s in 1972, cannot be overturned just on the government’s say so. Therefore the government cannot invoke article 50 without parliament’s authority.
Brexiters’ cries of foul ignore the facts. Both sides accepted that the case was within the court’s jurisdiction. They agreed too that it was a matter only of how, not if, article 50 should be invoked. This was no backdoor attempt to reverse the outcome of the referendum. There was no conspiracy. Rather, three of the most senior judges in England and Wales heard arguments on both sides from some of the best legal minds in the country and unanimously agreed that the law demanded parliament had a say.
The decision was expressed with such force and clarity that it is hard to imagine a successful appeal. For that reason alone, the government is wrong to insist it is going to try anyway, a decision that will make it even harder to meet the prime minister’s pledge to trigger article 50 by the end of March. That means a four-day hearing of the full court, currently eleven permanent justices. Scotland, Wales and possibly Northern Ireland are all likely to want to be involved, exacerbating division. And each session will be live-streamed in full view of global markets eager to trade on uncertainty.
Instead of continuing an expensive and time-consuming fight in an attempt to seek legitimacy for riding roughshod over parliament, the government would be much wiser to do what it should have done from the start and ask for parliament’s approval to start negotiations on the basis of a clear explanation of what it hopes to achieve. However, the overwhelming political question remains how to manage the consequences of the referendum in a way that heals rather than deepens differences, and in the context of the narrative of betrayal so eagerly fostered by some of her MPs and activists, the prime minister may believe it is better to be seen to fight all the way even if she ends up with the same result. Yet at some point soon, she must stand up to the insatiable zealots in the debate and confront them with her vision for Britain’s future relationship with the EU, and she must do it in parliament.
Meanwhile the government’s business managers will be aghast. They know they will be unlikely to get away with a simple vote of both houses. It might appear the least-cost option, but while the high court’s judgement is carefully non-prescriptive, it indicates that new legislation is necessary. If the government thinks differently, it risks another legal challenge. Yet getting a bill of this consequence through parliament, however short and apparently non-committal it is, conjures up a long vista of revolt and negotiation that is likely to extinguish hopes of any other legislative initiative for the rest of the session.
But now, those MPs – a majority – who supported remain are handed the challenge of holding the government to account without feeding into the Brexiters’ conspiracy theories. In particular, it is time for Labour, not least because it is the official opposition, to get on and agree a clear position. Some pro-remain MPs like Nick Clegg who has made much of the running in this debate would like a cross-party alliance around a demand for a second referendum to approve the final deal, and a commitment to staying in the single market. That may be hard for Jeremy Corbyn to accept. But, not least because an early election is back on the cards, he must as a matter of urgency set out what he does want, and how Labour will judge the government’s approach. It is time for a strategy rather than a series of important but piecemeal demands. Parliament is back where it should be, at the heart of the debate. Now Labour must be in the thick of the contest, bold and principled in support of the national interest.
The justice secretary denies there is a prisons crisis, but what else should one call it? Assaults, self-harm and suicide have risen alarmingly over the last year: Nick Hardwick, the chair of the parole board and former chief inspector of prisons thinks that violence behind bars is at its worst ever level. None of this is surprising given the sharp decline in staff numbers and loss of expertise since 2010, leaving 18,000 officers overseeing 86,000 inmates and dealing with new challenges presented by the influx of “legal highs”, mobile phones and use of drones to smuggle in other contraband. The good news is that Liz Truss has carried through some of the more practical of her predecessor Michael Gove’s bold promises on reform in today’s white paper on prisons. Stressing that the system’s purpose is safety and rehabilitation, not just containment, the justice secretary promised to recruit 2,500 more officers and build 10,000 modern prison places – including five small women’s “community prisons” – so decrepit Victorian jails can close. Such change is welcome; and it is needed urgently.
Prisons have been used as dumping grounds, the last resort for dealing with social policy failures, as their population shows: around a quarter have been in care as a child, at least a third have a mental or physical disability, and half have the literacy levels of an 11-year-old. It is hard enough to tackle complex and deep-rooted problems at the best of times; it is impossible to do so under current conditions. It is pointless to talk about rehabilitation when there are too few prison staff to let inmates out of their cells for longer than an hour or two or ensure even the most basic levels of hygiene, let alone engage constructively with them as the new strategy demands. Even with today’s boost, there will be 4,500 fewer officers than in 2010. And no one has yet built their way out of a prison crisis. Yet while ministers’ rhetoric has changed, in reality they are still on the course set by Michael “prison works” Howard and David Blunkett: the sentence inflation that they oversaw – for theft and drug offences, as well as violent and sexual crimes – has doubled the prison population since the early nineties. Real reform demands the courage to address sentencing, as former home and justice secretary Ken Clarke pointed out, and redirect resources to credible community alternatives, found to have significantly lower reoffending rates than short sentences in the government’s own research.
Recidivism costs the country £15bn a year, Ms Truss warned; almost half of prisoners are reconvicted within a year of release. She maintains that the solution is to cut reoffending, as well as increase early intervention to prevent people from committing crimes. In truth, to be viable, such a reduction needs enough officers with the opportunity to build relationships with a smaller prison population in a better estate.
The alternative, as Mr Clarke pointed out, is simply condemning more people to “overcrowded slums”. Nowhere is more deserving of this name than Pentonville, where an inmate was stabbed to death last month. Back in 1938 it was described as long overdue for demolition, yet here it is still, almost 80 years later, now condemned as “the grimmest of the grim”. Mr Gove was right to single it out when he first proposed his “new for old” building scheme; Ms Truss must make sure it is one of the first to go.
The three judges who delivered the pivotal Brexit judgment included the most senior in England and Wales.
The lord chief justice, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, is head of the judiciary. He is a forthright defender of judicial independence and a supporter of modernisation in the courts where cases are still conducted from behind mounds of files and paperwork.
Born in Wales – he remains a supporter of courts outside London – Lord Thomas was educated at Rugby school and Trinity Hall, Cambridge, where he read law. He started off practising in commercial cases, became a QC and an assistant recorder (part-time judge) in 1984.
In 1996, Thomas was appointed as a high court judge. From 1998 to 2001 he was one of the presiding judges of the Wales and Chester Circuit. He joined the court of appeal in 2003 and became lord chief justice in 2013, succeeding Lord Judge.
Under the Constitutional Reform Act 2005, the lord chief justice has 400 statutory duties. Key responsibilities include representing the views of the judiciary of England and Wales to parliament and government. He appears before parliamentary select committees to answer questions about the state of the justice system.
In his annual report to parliament, issued this week, Thomas expressed concern about the danger of excessive court fees driving away international legal business from London and preventing access to justice.
The newly appointed master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton is the second most senior judge in England and Wales and head of the civil – as opposed to the criminal – division of the judiciary.
A former Olympic-level fencer, he is Britain’s first openly gay senior judge. He was educated at St Paul’s school in west London and Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. 
Etherton became a high court judge in 2001 and joined the court of appeal in 2008. The post of the master of the rolls dates back to at least the 13th century. His appointment took effect last month, following the retirement of Lord Dyson. 
Lord Justice Sales was appointed as lord justice of appeal in 2014. He is an expert in constitutional law and formerly practised in the same set of chambers as Tony Blair.
Educated at the Royal grammar school, Guildford, and Churchill College, Cambridge, he was called to the bar in 1985 and appointed first Treasury junior counsel – a position traditionally known as “Treasury Devil”, in 1997.
He became a QC in 2006 and continued to act for the government in the renamed post of first Treasury counsel (Common Law) until his appointment as a high court judge in 2008. 
Sales has been a member of the Competition Appeal Tribunal since 2008 and was appointed as vice-president of the Investigatory Powers Tribunal, which deals with complaints about the intelligence services and surveillance, in 2014.
It is hard to think of a legal ruling with bigger political consequences than the one the lord chief justice and his colleagues handed down in the high court on Thursday. As a result, the May government’s secretive Brexit strategy will have to be rethought to comply, parliament will have to stop cowering in the corner about the referendum as it has done too often, while the welcome likelihood of MPs using their influence to ensure some form of “soft Brexit” has dramatically increased – as the immediate response to the news in the markets showed.
Indeed, the political possibilities may go a lot further. The next general election is now much more likely to be a verdict on Theresa May’s Brexit stance, a prospect that ought to focus opposition party minds as well as the prime minister’s. That election could now take place earlier than May had originally intended. A second vote on the eventual Brexit terms, either in parliament or even another referendum, is also more likely. It’s even possible that Brexit itself just got a bit less inevitable. That’s still a distant prospect, but maybe it’s worth a little flutter.
The judges have done something else. By asserting that the UK parliament has sovereignty over a treaty issue with domestic implications, the court was in fact merely restating a fundamental principle. The precedent on which the court drew went back to Sir Edward Coke in the early 17th century and to the bill of rights of 1688-89. This is why the ruling is unlikely to be overturned in the government’s appeal to the supreme court. It may even be strengthened.
That Thursday’s ruling was needed at all is a reminder of how much in the British political and democratic system still needs fixing. On the one hand the judgment reopens the issue of the medieval prerogative powers that ministers continue to claim for themselves over Britain’s place in an increasingly interconnected world. These powers have no place in an open 21st-century democracy.
After Iraq, no prime minister can in practice take Britain to war without the authority of parliament. After this ruling, no prime minister can secretly renegotiate one of the most all-embracing treaties, the 1972 European Communities Act, ever made by the UK either. This is progress.
On the other hand, the ruling dramatically underscores the uneasy evolving relationship between referendums and parliamentary democracy in Britain. If ever there were an example of the way referendums create at least as many problems and cause at least as much instability as they resolve, here it was.
Parliament is far from perfect, but it is a lot better at making good, stabilising decisions than referendums, which give too much power to a biased and bad media of the kind we have here. The case for the kind of root-and-branch constitutional rethink that Gordon Brown made on Thursday continues to be overwhelming.
Nevertheless, parliament needs to rise to the occasion. Parliamentary sovereignty is a phrase that is more used than understood, let alone exercised. If you need proof, look at the Brexiters’ response to the court ruling. If there is one thing that united all wings of the leave campaign this year it was the belief that Britain should make its own decisions and “take back control”. Unless it means rule by the Daily Mail, that means parliament is the sovereign lawmaker and judges decide what the law means – which is exactly what the courts have just upheld.
But you would never think that from the Brexiter reactions, which would be laughable if they were not so disturbing and arrogant. Ukip funder Arron Banks complained about unelected judges and sabotage. Nigel Farage said it was a betrayal that would lead to a half-Brexit. Leadership contender Suzanne Evans said the judges should all be sacked. The supposed libertarian Conservative MP Dominic Raab condemned the claimants for going to law at all. Iain Duncan Smith said the courts should not tell parliament how to do its job – they didn’t, Iain. Doubtless tomorrow morning the bullying and triumphalist anti-European press will be in primal outrage mode too.
In many respects it is to parliament’s discredit that it has done so little to force the issue and protect its rights. Instead, it has taken Gina Miller and Deir dos Santos to stand up against those who believe the June referendum is the be-all and end-all of all discussion about the future of this country in Europe. Thursday was a noble restatement of the importance of parliamentary sovereignty, but parliament itself has done pathetically little to deserve the outcome.
That needs to change. With the exception of the Scottish Nationalists, who march to a different drum, most English and Welsh MPs have been browbeaten into feeling they can’t say much about the detail of Brexit for fear of being labelled anti-democratic. Now’s their chance.
They need to start by asking for information; demand a green paper about Brexit plans and options. Labour, in particular, has to focus on the issue far better than it has yet done. Every time shadow Brexit secretary Keir Starmer opens his mouth on the subject, though, there is a glimpse of the possibilities.
May will not be able to duck this ruling. It is a big humiliation for her approach. She may be tempted to go for a quick one-off vote in order to minimise the problem. But the supreme court appeal, where judgment is likely to come in January, gets in the way of that strategy. If the opposition wins the Richmond Park byelection at the start of December, a leader who thrives on being in control will not want to look as if she is on the run. Meanwhile, keep an eye on George Osborne.
Until now, May has combined secretiveness with hinting that a tough negotiation stance on migration would make single market access difficult. That approach will not withstand the impact of the need to consult parliament. She must face the likelihood that both the Commons and the Lords will focus on securing single market access in ways that could split the cabinet and provoke resignations.
These things are real possibilities now, not daydreams. The courts have left May little alternative but to change course on the most important issue of her premiership.
Increasing numbers of people have been warming to the notion that Brexit may not have to mean Brexit after all. This was probably inevitable given that those who voted for it did so for a very wide range of reasons, and it is abundantly clear that the cabinet is about as unclear as the rest of us. The announcement that the UK government has lost its high court case about article 50 (Report, 3 November, theguardian.com) means that, subject to appeal, it will have to be debated in parliament. This presents a golden opportunity for MPs to throw a spanner in the works by refusing to vote for article 50 to be triggered without knowing precisely, or at least, generally, what Brexit will actually look like. When we know the awful truth I predict a stampede towards Brexit exit.
Any arguments about this thwarting the will of the people needs to be shown up for the nonsense it is. It would not be thwarting the will of the 48% who voted against and, I suspect, a high proportion of those who voted to leave didn’t vote for hard Brexit, having believed some of the lies of leading Brexiters. Perhaps we can still pull back from the brink if parliament is prepared to face the fury of Ukip and the Tory right, two groups that are increasingly difficult to tell apart.
Alan Healey
Bishops Castle, Shropshire
• The high court decision is not about whether we stay in or leave the EU, it is about common sense. I have always been a reluctant remainer – not against Brexit as such, I simply believe that the decision was reached in a fatally flawed way, partly because the leave campaign never had to explain exactly what leave would mean. People were being asked to vote for a blind option.
We can’t turn back time and redo the referendum, but at least if there is a full debate in parliament we will get a proper discussion on the reasons for leaving and the options for the future. It is highly likely that parliament will vote to leave, but at least the decision will have been reached in something close to a proper process. This could make a big difference in healing the fractured and politically intolerant mood that has emerged in the country since the vote.
Ken Abbott
Portishead, Somerset
• Claims that the high court ruling is an attempt to scupper Brexit altogether are ridiculous. In addition to committing the cardinal sin of defining a word using the word itself (“Brexit means Brexit”), the government has also made no sense when arguing against parliamentary ratification of article 50.
Theresa May has stated, rather patronisingly, that any negotiator knows you should not show your hand to those on the other side of the table before negotiations have even begun. She is correct.
However, it is not implicit that anyone but parliament is able to see our negotiating hand. Parliament is able to sit in private, meaning only MPs may be present and no media coverage may take place. This was done in 2001 when MPs debated the anti-terrorism, crime and security bill.
Parliamentary involvement in Brexit will not reverse the referendum result, it will simply scrutinise the terms of withdrawal and it can be achieved without showing our hand to the EU.
Gabriel Osborne
Bristol
• “Brexit means Brexit” is a meaningless and unhelpful phrase and today’s high court judgment reminds us of this. Two words, one repeated, designed to make us forget the constitutional framework and legal process. Brexit (a consultative referendum) means (voted for by a narrow majority) Brexit (that we should leave the EU without further parliamentary scrutiny or consideration of the implications or constitutional foundations of the vote).
Our constitution, despite being unwritten, is based in law. Parliament (not the government) decided to ask the public their opinion and parliament should decide what to do with this. The House of Lords must be given the chance to do its job too – if it exists at all surely it is for moments like this, to intervene and apply perspective in a situation when the government of the day is trying to do something deeply unconstitutional. And to ensure that the proper time and consideration is given to a decision with such significant consequences.
The result of the referendum is causing divisions not just because of how deeply many people feel about the issues or that the result feels inconclusive, but because the referendum itself was not put in a robust constitutional framework, and as a result its consequences are open to debate.
Kevin Olding
London
• Liam Fox and Dominic Raab don’t seem to understand the high court’s ruling. The nub of the matter is that the executive cannot by royal prerogative alter the rights that British citizens currently enjoy as members of the EU. The most important of these is the right to live and work freely in 28 European countries. If we leave the EU, Poles and Romanians will have that figure reduced from 28 to 27; British citizens meanwhile will have it reduced from 28 to 1.
Charles Turner
Associate professor of sociology, University of Warwick
• What a lovely irony! Having spent months arguing for the return of British sovereignty, the Brexiters don’t seem to like it much.
Roy Boffy
Sutton Coldfield, Birmingham
• Whether you supported leave or remain, the decision of an unelected judge to prevent the prime minister from triggering article 50 is disgusting. Rarely has there been a clearer example of the establishment frustrating democracy and disrespecting the will (for good or ill) of the majority of the people.
Tim Raymond
Seabrook, Kent
• If the government fails to overturn the decision to allow parliament a vote on article 50 in the supreme court, then they could always appeal to the European court…
Steve Flatley
York
• On 3 November 1774, Edmund Burke spoke as follows to the electors of Bristol:
“Certainly, gentlemen, it ought to be the happiness and glory of a representative to live in the strictest union, the closest correspondence, and the most unreserved communication with his constituents. Their wishes ought to have great weight with him; their opinion, high respect; their business, unremitted attention. It is his duty to sacrifice his repose, his pleasures, his satisfactions, to theirs; and above all, ever, and in all cases, to prefer their interest to his own. But his unbiassed opinion, his mature judgment, his enlightened conscience, he ought not to sacrifice to you, to any man, or to any set of men living. These he does not derive from your pleasure; no, nor from the law and the constitution. They are a trust from Providence, for the abuse of which he is deeply answerable. Your representative owes you, not his industry only, but his judgment; and he betrays, instead of serving you, if he sacrifices it to your opinion.”
Martin Thom
Cambridge
Three senior judges ruled on Thursday that the British government does not have the authority to proceed with the UK’s exit from the European Union without the approval of parliament. A legal challenge to the prime minister’s power to trigger article 50, the clause that formally begins Brexit, has proved controversial since being launched in the aftermath of the EU referendum vote earlier this year.
The government said the decision to leave the EU was taken by the public in the referendum on 23 June and that its executive powers, under the royal prerogative, were sufficient to give notice to the EU on behalf of the cabinet. But this was challenged by the claimants who said that the referendum was merely consultative and only parliament had the power to decide.
One of two main claimants who led the challenge, Gina Miller, a businesswoman and philanthropist, said at the outset that the case was not an attempt to overturn the referendum decision. Miller said the intention was to “answer a fundamental legal question about the powers that can be used by the prime minister and whether they can side-step parliament”.
Almost certainly not. But it does make the position much more confused. MPs are talking of the high court triggering a constitutional crisis without any indication of how to get out of it.
It also risks driving an even bigger wedge between leavers and remainers, particularly since the leavers are likely to interpret this as one more desperate attempt by the Metropolitan liberal elite to thwart the will of the people (a suspicion that is going to shape the thinking of a lot of MPs).
The government has said it will appeal against the decision and it has permission to go straight to the supreme court, which has set aside time for what might be a four-day hearing starting on 7 December . All 11 of the justices in position will sit – the biggest court ever assembled – to decide on a matter that goes to the heart of the UK’s unwritten constitution.
The supreme court will be extremely sensitive to public opinion about the role of the court, and whether it is making decisions that are more political than judicial. However both sides, government as well as the petitioners, accept that it is a proper matter for the courts to decide, whatever the Brexiteers are shouting about declaring war on democracy.
Although both Downing Street and Liam Fox, the international trade secretary, have said it will, there are plenty of voices counselling against. The high court’s ruling was comprehensively in favour of parliament and against invoking Article 50 using prerogative powers. Appealing will just add to the delay. But there are politics at play here that may yet make no 10 feel they must fight all the way.
The biggest question of all. Is a straight yes or no vote – a kind of parliamentary referendum – enough? Technically, that is possible. The risk – some say the likelihood – is that if government tried to bounce parliament into that kind of snap judgement, it would be vulnerable to another legal action.
Some sources are already indicating it will be legislation, as the judges appear to suggest is necessary. The people who brought the case argued that it would be constitutionally impossible to change the law of Britain (as of course leaving the EU would, massively) without an act of parliament.
If there has to be a whole new bill that goes to the Commons and Lords stage by stage, it will be a long and (for the government) dangerous fight. If it’s just yes or no, the vote could happen quickly - and probably within Theresa May’s previously stated timetable of triggering article 50 by the end of March.
That’s not clear. Most MPs supported remain, but most represent constituencies that voted leave. This will go right to the heart of how the British constitution works: whether MPs should vote according to the wishes of their constituents or in their best judgement (leaving the electorate to decide whether to keep them in a job at the next election).
Having said that, leave was the majority view in nearly 70% of Labour seats for example, so it would probably be electoral suicide for the party’s MPs to rebel (or perhaps even abstain). Such a move could open the gates to Ukip.
Yes, it must. That is one thing that MPs could possibly do to sort out the conflict between what they think is in the national interest and what their voters want. Although it is hard to think of a single Labour MP who would fancy the idea right now - and it would take a two-thirds majority in the Commons to trigger an early election under the Fixed Term Parliaments Act.
Of course it would be churlish not to welcome the recruitment of 2,500 more prison officers announced by the justice secretary Liz Truss today. But it would also be disingenuous not to see such apparent largesse against the loss of 7,000 officers since 2010. New recruits must be found for £9 per hour, and then there’s the training, which at 10 weeks is the shortest of any jurisdiction across the world, with entry requiring no basic minimum qualifications. There was mention in the white paper of graduate recruitment and a prison version of a Teach First scheme – all laudable but at best only incremental. It is in the workforce that the answer lies to our crisis-hit prison system (as we identified in our recent report for the RSA).
Recent analysis of the current malaise in our prison system talks of sentencing, mental health, drugs and overcrowding, but it is staff-prisoner relationships and the chasm that has opened up between those living and working in our prisons that has caused the current situation. The need for savings over the last five years was brutally translated into reductions in both numbers and experience. The process, known as benchmarking, has had catastrophic results.
As the disaster unfolded, it was prison governors, treated more like deck chairs than chess pieces, who were left to carry the can. Some courageous individuals rose to the challenge, others were sacrificed on the frequent damning reports by the chief inspector of prisons.
The issue of leadership was noticeably absent from the secretary of state’s pronouncements. There were, however, plenty of sticks with which to beat governors: yet more league tables, powers for inspectors, and the potential for the secretary of state to “intervene” (though how remains unclear).
It was David Cameron and Liz Truss’s predecessor, Michael Gove, who talked of a crushing bureaucracy preventing governors from running their jails. The white paper does nothing to address the structural change essential to allowing a more devolved approach that tackles over-centralisation and gives governors greater local autonomy and accountability. There is a tacit acceptance that governors should work with local communities, employers and services, but no mention of the fact that this can only be done if they are allowed to look outwards to the communities they serve, rather than upwards to bureaucracies that serve only themselves.
While governors and staff will feel there is little in this for them, it is likely prisoners will feel much the same. Despite what many people think, prisoners want to be safe and active, and to tackle their chaotic lives. They will not be influenced by drug testing and millions spent on sniffer dogs. Neither do anything to tackle the problems of illicit drug use – but they sound good. No-fly zones to prevent the use of drones just sound silly. Prisoners will embrace education and employment if given the chance, but merely measuring how the system fails to provide them will make little difference.
What should also be centre stage in prison reform is the fact that 70,000 prisoners are handed back to communities each year, and in that process we are failing miserably. Therein lies the inconvenient truth of another crisis denied by government. Chris Grayling’s calamitous destruction of the probation system through privatisation is seeing more prisoners being recalled to prison – less because of the risk they pose, than to do with private companies realising that there is no profit in tackling the complex issues of prisoner resettlement.
For many prisoners today there is nothing for them on the inside and nothing on the outside. Even if when released you survive, the supposed supervision process, housing and employment will remain elusive for those with a criminal record. Demoralised staff and governors meet demotivated prisoners: a perfect storm.
The white paper gives us no solutions, merely rhetoric on how bad it all is. We knew that long ago. It suggests prisons can measure their way back to success. They can’t. There is a real opportunity for change – precisely because things are so bad.
Political courage would see the abolition of the National Offender Management Service and some reduction in the costs (£500m a year) and bureaucracy of the Ministry of Justice. Liz Truss has promised five new prisons by 2020, so far there is the hint of only one. If they are to be constructed, they are an opportunity to build in new structures and designs and avoid the erection of 21st-century warehouses.
In new or old prisons, well-selected, trained and supported governors would work with and be accountable to communities through local boards. They would decide in co-operation with local providers on the skills of their workforce and the delivery of services to prisoners. It is only in such a climate that staff-prisoner relationships can be rebuilt and a safe, decent and humane prison system created.
Official reaction on the continent to the high court’s ruling on article 50 has been muted, with national governments and the European commission regarding the decision as an internal matter.
Privately, however, EU diplomats said they were worried the British court’s decision – that the UK government could not start Brexit without parliament’s approval – might complicate the process and cause unwelcome delay.
A spokesman for the commission said its president, Jean-Claude Juncker, would discuss the Brexit process with Theresa May, the UK prime minister, at her request in a phone call on Friday, but declined to comment on the ruling. 
The EU’s executive “will not comment on any issues that pertain to the internal legal and constitutional order of our member states”, he said, adding that all remaining EU members would like to see a swift notification of article 50 and any agreement would require the consent of the European parliament.
EU diplomats in Brussels and London said it was not immediately clear what the decision would mean for the bloc’s remaining members. “This wasn’t about whether article 50 will be invoked, but how,” said one.
Another EU government official said: “This may complicate things for the prime minister, but she has said the Brexit timetable will not be affected. For the EU-27, we must still wait to hear what Britain wants.”
EU-27 governments and the Brussels institutions have been increasingly tough on the bloc’s negotiating position but have stressed since the referendum that while they regret the vote the will of the British electorate must be respected.
Markets and sterling responded favourably to the ruling, with traders and investors apparently hopeful it could delay the Brexit process or make it harder for the government to push through a hard Brexit.
But some diplomats said member states would be concerned that May’s promise to trigger article 50 before April 2017 might not now be kept, stressing any delay in the exit process would not be welcome.
“The most important thing is that we keep on track with the timetable,” a diplomat said, adding that it seemed possible MPs might now seek to put conditions on May’s negotiating remit. “It makes something that was already very complicated even more complicated.”
One official said parliamentary scrutiny could “slow things down a lot, which would not be good news”, and another added: “We all know that involving parliaments in complicated, detailed, negotiations is not the smoothest way to go.”
Keen to avoid uncertainty and instability in the bloc, the EU-27 have said since the referendum in June that Britain should leave as soon as practically possible – although it was accepted that London needs time to define its position.
The EU is also eager to get the formal two-year article 50 leaving process started before the spring, both to avoid clashes with potentially difficult elections in France, Germany and the Netherlands later in 2017 and to ensure Britain is out before the next European elections in spring 2019.
It has also repeatedly made clear than Britain will not be allowed to “cherry pick” and cannot expect to enjoy EU rights, such as special access to the single market, without obligations such as people’s freedom of movement.
The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said on Wednesday that she hoped the negotiations would not lead to friction between the UK and the EU, but that the EU’s “four freedoms” – movement of goods, services, capital and labour – were non-negotiable and had to form the basis for Brexit talks.
Some EU politicians, however, were less reluctant to pass comment on the court’s judgment. “The high court’s decision is a victory for parliamentary democracy in Britain,” said Axel Schäfer, deputy chair of Germany’s Social Democratic party.
“The attempt to smuggle such a momentous decision past parliament has luckily been stopped by the court. Now … Labour and Liberal Democrats would do well to say no to a calamitous exit from the EU during the parliamentary debates.”
The leader of the anti-migrant, anti-EU, Northern League party in Italy said the decision demonstrated a lack of democracy. “Britons have voted and what matters for me is the vote of the people,” said Matteo Salvini. “This position surprises me – but I don’t think it will change anything.”
But Mercedes Bresso, an Italian MEP in the Democratic party led by the prime minister, Matteo Renzi, welcomed the court’s decision. “I have always thought the [UK] parliament should be involved, just as the European parliament is involved from the side of the EU,” she said. “For me, this is democracy.”
She said it was possible Brexit would not happen due to the decision, but that although the vote had been close she believed parliament would “probably respect the decision of the people”.
This year’s US presidential election has been part political thriller and part reality TV show. It comes to a climax next week as polls narrow and stock markets adjust to the renewed possibility of a Trump victory.
Joining Heather Stewart to discuss it all are Guardian columnists Hadley Freeman, Jonathan Freedland and Martin Kettle.
Also this week: the high court has ruled against the government in a verdict that states that parliament must be involved in the triggering of article 50 – the legal requirement in beginning Brexit talks with the EU. Legal correspondent Owen Bowcott explains what it all means.
The justice secretary, Elizabeth Truss, has been warned by her Conservative predecessor Ken Clarke that her major prison reform programme will be “impossible to achieve” unless she addresses the “prison works” sentencing policies of the past 20 years that have doubled the jail population to a record 85,000 in England and Wales.
Clarke welcomed the justice secretary’s new prison plan but told MPs she needed to “take the courageous decision to start addressing some of the sentencing policies of the 1990s/2000s, which accidentally doubled the prison population in those overcrowded slums and actually make sure our prisons are for serious criminals who need punishment”.
His warning came after the Prison Governors Association welcomed Truss’s decision to recruit an extra 2,500 prison officers to “help halt the staggering rise in prison violence” but said her package will not have an immediate impact “as the real challenge now is actually getting staff through the gates”. The justice secretary acknowledged that there are serious recruitment problems in London and the south-east.
In the Commons, Truss confirmed that a prison safety and reform bill would be introduced into parliament in the new year to increase freedoms for governors, improve education opportunities for offenders and close old and inefficient jails as part of the biggest overhaul of the prison system for a generation.
She rejected, however, Clarke’s warning of the need to tackle the inflation in sentencing that was introduced under Michael Howard’s punitive “prison works” policy and which has seen the jail population in England and Wales jump from 42,000 in 1990 to more than 85,000 this week. Truss said she was not in favour of such “arbitrary reductions” in the prison population.
The detailed white paper published on Thursday, Prison Safety and Reform, confirms the plans for a new anti-drugs strategy, to devolve budgets to governors and to introduce a system of league tables and a new trigger for the justice secretary to intervene in failing prisons.
It discloses that the prison authorities intend to tackle deliveries of drugs and other contraband by drone with trials to detect and block them. They are also talking to the drone industry about the potential to programme the GPS coordinates of prison no-fly zones into the majority of drones on the market so they are blocked from overflying jails.
The white paper confirms the plans to open the next “supersized” 1,000 plus-inmate jail at Wellingborough in Northamptonshire and says a planning application will also be submitted to build a new prison at Glen Parva in Leicestershire.
It also discloses plans to open five new “community prisons” for women as part of a £1.3bn programme to provide 10,000 modern prison places by 2020.
The white paper also confirms the commitment to a “major programme of closures” of the “oldest and most inadequate” prisons over the next five years including a plan to reconfigure the estate, which has a surplus of 10,500 local prison places and a shortage of 14,400 resettlement and training places.
Truss says that former prisons at Dover and Haslar, Portsmouth, which have recently been immigration removal centres, will not be reopened as prisons. The white paper doesn’t name Pentonville, the Victorian jail dubbed the “grimmest of the grim” and which Michael Gove identified as a candidate for closure. But it does mention another Victorian London jail, Wandsworth, which is supposed to be a remand prison and yet only a third of its 1,600 population is awaiting trial or sentence.
The white paper also confirms that the prison service intends to press ahead with anti-extremism plans to set up a network of separate specialist units to house “the most subversive individuals” in the prison system despite a recent French decision to abandon a similar system.
Truss said that the recruitment of an extra 2,500 staff, including 400 she announced at the Tory party conference, would enable a new system of dedicated officers with each responsible for six inmates. She acknowledged that there were particular recruitment difficulties in London and the south-east but said she hoped new recruits would come from the armed forces among others. A prison officer apprenticeship scheme to be introduced next year will provide 1,000 new officers and a graduate scheme will provided 40 more a year.
The shadow justice secretary, Richard Burgon, criticised the package as “too little, too late”, saying: “It’s 2,500 extra [officers], after over 6,000 fewer on the frontline. Will the secretary of state now admit that there is a Conservative cuts-created crisis in safety in our prisons?
“The root cause of this prison crisis is the political decision to cut our prison service back to the bone. Today’s announcement feels a lot like too little, too late,” he said.
A professional US poker player has lost his appeal against a London casino over winnings of £7.7m due to his use of “edge-sorting”, a gambling technique that involves exploiting design irregularities on the backs of cards.
Phil Ivey, 39, had challenged a 2014 high court decision to dismiss his case against Genting Casinos UK, which owns Crockfords Club in Mayfair. After successfully playing a version of baccarat known as Punto Banco at the casino two years earlier, Ivey was told his winnings would be wired to him and he left for home in Las Vegas, but it never arrived. Instead, his stake money of £1m was returned to him.
Genting, which owns more than 40 casinos in the UK, said edge-sorting, which Ivey used to gain a competitive advantage, was not a legitimate strategy and the casino had no liability to him.
The tactic allows players to predict whether a card may be high or low – and therefore beneficial to their hand – by finding tiny irregularities in the back of each card.
The manufacturing process in some decks of cards causes tiny differences on the edges of playing cards. Some cards printed for the Genting Group have this characteristic, as the machine that cuts them leaves a pattern – a white circle broken by two curved lines – that is more pronounced on some cards than others.
Genting claimed that Ivey’s exploitation of the printing differences defeated the essential premise of the game of baccarat, thereby invalidating the gaming contract at best, or cheating at worst.
The casino’s chosen manufacturer, Angel Co Ltd, says this is not a defect and is within a contractually specified tolerance of up to 0.3mm.
On Thursday in the court of appeal, Lady Justice Arden said it was common ground that there was an implied term in the contract not to cheat and the meaning of cheating for that purpose was to be determined in accordance with the Gambling Act 2005.
“In my judgment, this section provides that a party may cheat within the meaning of this section without dishonesty or intention to deceive: depending on the circumstances it may be enough that he simply interferes with the process of the game,” Arden said. “On that basis, the fact that the appellant did not regard himself as cheating is not determinative.”
There was no doubt, Arden added, that the actions of Ivey and another gambler, Cheung Yin Sun, interfered with the process by which Crockfords played the game. “It is for the court to determine whether the interference was of such a quality as to constitute cheating. In my judgment it had that quality.
“In particular the actions which Mr Ivey took or caused to be taken had a substantial effect on the odds in the game and Crockfords were not aware of this at the relevant time. In these circumstances, no lower standard applied in this case because Mr Ivey was an advantage player who was in an adversarial position with the casino.”
Ivey has maintained that he did nothing more than exploit Crockfords’ failure to protect themselves against a player of his ability. “I was upset as I had played an honest game and won fairly. My integrity is infinitely more important to me than a big win,” he said.
Arden and Lord Justice Tomlinson dismissed the appeal but the third member of the panel, Lady Justice Sharp, allowed it, saying that the trial judge, Mr Justice Mitting, was wrong to construe the issue of “cheat” in the way that he did.
Mitting had said the fact that Ivey was genuinely convinced he did not cheat and the practice commanded considerable support from others was not determinative of whether it amounted to cheating. He added that Ivey had gained himself an advantage and did so by using a croupier as his innocent agent or tool.
In the judge’s view, this was “cheating for the purpose of civil law”.
After the ruling, the Genting UK president and chief operating officer, Paul Willcock, said the company was “obviously very happy with the decision”.
But Ivey said the decision made no sense to him. “The trial judge said that I was not dishonest and the three appeal judges agreed, but somehow the decision has gone against me. Can someone tell me how you can have honest cheating?” he said.
The poker player’s lawyer, Matthew Dowd, said: “The court of appeal’s decision leaves the law totally unclear as to what constitutes cheating at gambling.
“Four judges have looked at this issue now and none of them have been able to agree on the correct interpretation of section 42 of the Gambling Act.
“It is essential that the law is clarified and, in light of today’s decision, we are seeking permission to appeal to the supreme court.”
Ivey has also been embroiled in a legal battle over edge-sorting with an Atlantic City casino. Last month, a US district judge ruled that while Ivey and Sun didn’t cheat, they were liable for breach of contract when they used the technique to win $9.6m.
Parliament alone has the power to trigger Brexit by notifying Brussels of the UK’s intention to leave the European Union, the high court has ruled.
The judgment (pdf), delivered by the lord chief justice, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, is likely to slow the pace of Britain’s departure from the EU and is a huge setback for Theresa May, who had insisted the government alone would decide when to trigger the process. 
The lord chief justice said that “the most fundamental rule of the UK constitution is that parliament is sovereign”.
A government spokesman said ministers would appeal to the supreme court against the decision. The hearing will take place on 7-8 December.
Thomas said: “The court does not accept the argument put forward by the government. There is nothing in the 1972 European Communities Act to support it. In the judgment of the court, the argument is contrary both to the language used by parliament in the 1972 act, and to the fundamental principles of the sovereignty of parliament and the absence of any entitlement on the part of the crown to change domestic law by the exercise of its prerogative powers.”
Unless overturned on appeal at the supreme court, the ruling threatens to plunge the government’s plans for Brexit into disarray as the process will have to be subject to full parliamentary control. 
Government lawyers had argued that prerogative powers were a legitimate way to give effect “to the will of the people” who voted by a clear majority to leave the EU in the June referendum. 
But Thomas declared: “The government does not have power under the crown’s prerogative to give notice pursuant to article 50 for the UK to withdraw from the European Union.” 
The international trade secretary, Liam Fox, said the government was disappointed by the high court decision but added that “the government is determined to respect the result of the referendum”. 
The Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, said he was angered by the decision. “I worry that a betrayal may be near at hand … I now fear that every attempt will be made to block or delay the triggering of article 50. If this is so, they have no idea of the level of public anger they will provoke.”
The Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, said: “This ruling underlines the need for the government to bring its negotiating terms to parliament without delay. Labour respects the decision of the British people to leave the European Union. But there must be transparency and accountability to parliament on the terms of Brexit.”
The Lib Dem leader, Tim Farron, said he was delighted by the ruling. “Given the strict two-year timetable of exiting the EU once article 50 is triggered, it is critical that the government now lay out their negotiating to parliament, before such a vote is held,” he said.
By handing responsibility for initiating Brexit over to MPs, the three senior judges – Thomas, the master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton, and Lord Justice Sales – have ventured on to constitutionally untested ground.
The legal dispute focused on article 50 of the treaty on European Union, which says any member state may leave “in accordance with its own constitutional requirements” – an undefined term that has allowed both sides to pursue rival interpretations.
The decision may undermine the prime minister’s authority in conducting negotiations with other EU states in the run-up to the UK’s withdrawal.
Gina Miller, the lead claimant in the case, said: “It was the right decision because we were dealing with the sovereignty of parliament. It was not about winning or losing. It was about what was right. Now we can move forward with legal certainty.”
Deir Dos Santos, a hairdresser and the other lead claimant, said: “Today’s judgment is a victory for everyone who believes in the supremacy of our parliament and the rule of law. I have never challenged the result of the referendum – in fact I voted for Brexit for the sole reason that I wanted power to be returned from Europe to the British parliament. But I did not think it was right for the government then just to bypass parliament and try to take away my legal rights without consulting parliament first.”
John Halford, the solicitor at Bindmans who represented the People’s Challenge group, said: “The oversight, control and democratic accountability needed for decisions on Brexit have to match the consequences of those decisions for UK citizens. That is why our constitution empowers parliament, not the government, to take decisions.”
John Shaw, chair of the organisation Fair Deal for Expats, said: “This is superb news. We were convinced that our case was just. We’re delighted that the court agrees with us. There now needs to be a proper debate about how the rights of expats will be protected.”
The three judges’ ruling was unanimous. It stated: “By making and unmaking treaties the crown [ie the government] creates legal effects on the plane of international law, but in doing so it does not and cannot change domestic law. It cannot without the intervention of parliament confer rights on individuals or deprive individuals of rights.”
At one point the judgment dismisses arguments deployed by lawyers for the government – about whether rights within the EU were conferred by act of parliament or international treaty – as being “divorced from reality”.
The judges said: “The reality is that parliament knew and intended that enactment of the European Communities Act 1972 would provide the foundation acquisition by British citizens of rights under EU law which they could enforce in other member states.
They added that “the claimants are entitled to say that it would be surprising if they could be removed simply through action by the crown under its prerogative powers”.
They concluded: “In our judgment, the clear and necessary implication from these provisions taken separately and cumulatively is that parliament intended EU rights to have effect in domestic law and that this effect should not be capable of being undone or overridden by action taken by the crown in exercise of its prerogative powers.”
Part of the judges’ reasoning was based on legal precedents dating back to the 13th century, in particular the Case of Proclamations. That case involved merchants who were prevented from working in London by proclamation of Henry IV which was found to be in breach of a parliamentary act dating back to 1297. Parliament triumphed and the crown had to withdraw its ban.
A momentous constitutional decision was taken by the high court of England and Wales this morning. A prime minister’s absolute power to do what they like, when they like, regardless of laws and treaties, was struck down. Theresa May cannot tear up our right to be EU citizens without the authority of parliament. Those rights were bestowed by parliamentary votes in a series of treaties. She can’t high-handedly abandon them and trigger our exit from the EU without parliament’s agreement.
Judges, wisely, do not generally want to usurp the power of elected governments to govern. Laws made by judges are a poor substitute for those made by elected MPs in parliament. But this is a matter of the profoundest constitutional importance, with deep implications, controversial whichever way they had decided. They rightly pronounced that parliament is sovereign – which is what the Brexiters claimed we were voting on, until it no longer suited them.
What now? The government will appeal to the supreme court in December, though some suggest May should dash to the Commons immediately for a quick vote, before an as-yet hazy coalition of cross-party remainers has time to organise and solidify. If the appeal fails, will MPs galvanise? Leaving it to the unelected Lords is no answer.
There are times when MPs need to rise above their party interests, their own interests and the views of their constituents. That may risk being voted out, but they may earn more respect by standing up for the national interest as best they can determine: that’s what representative democracy is for. In times of war or national crisis, defending the country from grave error, at whatever personal cost, is their duty. Brexit is the greatest threat to national wellbeing since the war, and this will test the mettle not just of individual MPs, but of the nature and purpose of a representative democratic system.
How difficult and brave that is: Labour MPs are painfully mindful that 70% of their seats returned majorities in favour of Brexit. Raucous anger against any parliamentary attempt to let the country pause for thought is bellowed out daily by the Tory press denouncing all 48% of remain voters as an anti-democratic remoaning metropolitan elite. Stifling all experts just for being experts, intimidating even the Bank of England governor, Mark Carney, is a bullying demagoguery that paralyses many who should speak out. A non-binding referendum, voted on amid a thicket of utterly cynical lies and promises, cannot be a tombstone block to the judgment of MPs on this vital matter of national interest. It’s not anti-democratic to try to stop what so many other countries see as an incomprehensible act of economic suicide.
Why does the government fight so hard against what would almost certainly be a parliament that folded instantly on an article 50 vote? Because during such a debate they would have to bring forward some kind of plan for how they will negotiate Brexit. No such plan exists, because the split cabinet could not possibly agree even a vague outline to satisfy both Liam Fox and Damian Green. Even a wishlist of impossibilities would be impossible, with the demented John Redwood/Daily Express faction calling daily for an immediate crashing out, with no deals and no treaties.
Best news of the day came from a BBC interview with Lord Kerr, former head of the foreign office and ambassador to the US and the EU. It was he who drafted Article 50 and he says: “It is not irrevocable. You can change your mind while the process is going on.”
The pound soared following today’s high court news because markets are idiotic, shaped by punters second-guessing one another’s idiocy. This doesn’t suggest, alas, that Brexit is much closer to being reconsidered. Reality will take the pound back down, predicted to sink further with each step towards to the exit gate. Next year’s prices will rise, NIESR reckons, by 4%, hitting those who are “just managing” even harder.
Every day another bad effect is revealed before anything has even happened. Today reveals an acute labour shortage in the food processing industries, as east Europeans are reluctant to come here. The shrinking pound decreases the value of their pay, and they hear awful stories of racist attacks and abuse. Without actually leaving, we are already keeping EU immigrants away. The damage is beginning already.
The latest regreters are the £4bn curry house operators, who voted out. They were lied to outright, as Priti Patel and others told them fewer EU migrants would open the door to the chefs they desperately need and promised a points-based system to let chefs in. This has now been reneged on. There will be massive closures, they say. How naive could they be? A public stirred by Mail and Sun anti-migrant horror stories were made even more fearful of Muslim refugees pouring than of Poles: of course the government now says the screw is tightening and there will be no more Asian visas. Others too will find how badly they were lied to.
There is time for people to change their mind, and polls suggest opinion is on the move. The vote was narrow. But MPs can’t wait for public opinion to shift by itself. They have a role to play - as leaders not as followers. Today’s judgment tells them exactly that.
Once in a while, by mistake, Boris Johnson tells a truth: “Brexit means Brexit and we are going to make a titanic success of it”, he said last night at the Spectator awards. Yes, we are on the Titanic and he’s the captain. God help us. Can parliament help save us from him and the damage he has done before we sink?
Surely those who should be cheering today’s high court judgment the loudest are the people who have been the most passionate defenders of parliamentary sovereignty. So rejoice, Daniel Hannan: the judges have heeded your earnest plea to make parliament supreme. Put out the bunting, Michael Gove: your insistence that Westminster be the ultimate arbiter of our national affairs has been given the judicial seal of approval. Let all those who spent the spring trumpeting the glory of England, hailing it as the mother of parliaments, now celebrate their victory.
Except, of course, they won’t. Those who campaigned for leave in the name of wresting power from Brussels to Westminster went strangely quiet when it came to the question decided by the court today: who has the power to trigger article 50? Suddenly they found that parliament was not quite so sacred or central – that some things were best left to ministers to decide. Well, the judges have called out that hypocrisy. They have decided that the Brexiteers should have to comply with their own logic – and bow to parliament.
Does that mean, as Nigel Farage has said he fears, that a “betrayal” is imminent – that parliament might opt for a “half Brexit”, as the former Ukip leader put it, or even that it might halt Brexit altogether? You can see why that’s a possibility: the remain camp still has a majority in the Commons, when you add up not just Labour, the SNP and the Liberal Democrats but also the estimated 185 Tory MPs who wanted to stay in the EU. If they all united and voted as they did on 23 June, they could block Brexit tomorrow.
They won’t do that. Too many would regard it as a constitutional offence to go against the public’s verdict delivered in the referendum. Others have a more practical fear of contradicting the wishes of their own local electorate, anxious they would pay the price with their own seats.
But that fear will only fully kick in if Theresa May presents them with a straight, up-or-down choice: a one-line motion to trigger article 50 or not. If the choice is any less stark than that, if May proposes detailed legislation – then that would give anti-Brexit MPs plenty of wriggle room. They could say that while the public voted to leave, they did not vote for this kind of leave. That would give the remain majority in parliament the chance to slow things down and demand a much softer Brexit.
Two other factors could prove decisive. The coherence of Labour in parliament now matters. If the party can get its act together and unite around, say, the demand that Britain remains a member of the single market then it will have real muscle. The early signs were not encouraging: recall that the first public figure to demand the immediate triggering of article 50 was Jeremy Corbyn, hours after the vote. But Keir Starmer and others have set a good lead: Labour needs to press the case against hard Brexit strongly and coherently.
The other thing to remember is that parliament is not just the Commons. The Lords will have a say too. Unelected peers thwarting the will of the people may look like a democratic outrage. But Gove, Hannan and the rest can hardly complain. The Lords are an ancient part of our parliament. And parliament – as they never stopped reminding us – is sovereign.
For those of us who voted leave in order to ensure that it’s our MPs who make political decisions in this country, this morning’s ruling in the high court is a nice irony. I personally don’t have a problem with anyone using any democratic or legal means to achieve any political end they want. And there’s no doubt that MPs have the right to cancel Brexit if they choose to do so.
But I would advise them to use their power respectfully and wisely. The reputation of the political classes in this country is already very low, and any attempt to overturn the referendum result is likely to send it down even further with baleful consequences.
Whether it’ll make any difference in the long run is a moot point. There are powerful vested interests in the UK already at work to get the ballot overturned or render it meaningless. There are equally powerful interests in the EU itself who are willing to help them out. Personally, I wouldn’t bet against them succeeding. As the French, Dutch, Irish and Greeks have discovered, referendums in the EU are flexible friends. But that will leave a pertinent question – do votes actually count for anything in Europe these days, or are they merely glorified opinion polls?
Given the Conservative party’s long-standing commitment to the principles of parliamentary representative democracy, it is disappointing that today’s decision had to be made in the court. Ironically, a failure to consult elected representatives of the public on the terms of the negotiation package would undermine the very principles that David Davis, Boris Johnson and Liam Fox have championed. Hopefully, this will provide some much-needed clarity on what has been a completely chaotic showing from the government so far.
It will be vital that parliament now works productively together to get the best possible negotiating deal to take to Europe. Given the strict two-year timetable of exiting the EU once article 50 is triggered, it is critical that the government now lays out its negotiations to parliament, before such a vote is held. So far, May’s team have been all over the place when it comes to prioritising what is best for Britain, and it’s time they pull their socks up and start taking this seriously.
Ultimately, the British people voted for a departure but not for a destination, which is why what really matters is allowing them to vote again on the final deal, giving them the chance to say no to an irresponsible hard Brexit that risks our economy and our jobs.
The government has announced that it will appeal against a judgment by a UK court that restores sovereignty to the UK parliament to legislate for the UK’s legal landscape. Even for the sake of appearances, that just looks bad. The Vote Leave camp campaigned for sovereignty to be restored to the UK parliament. It is symptomatic of their many inconsistencies that they now argue that this crucial decision ought not to be taken by parliament.

