I have been in my current role for 12 years but directly under government bodies, and was transferred to a CRC in August 2014. My role is predominantly working face to face with low to medium risk service users and ensuring they report regularly to the centre. Myself and other colleagues have yet to have any job specific training other then a few hours being shown a few key things on their database. I have received no training in relation to health and safety. I have very little contact with supervising officers to find out how their service users are complying with their orders, and there are so many probation officers with unsafe case levels to manage. As for the companies interest or obligation for my welfare, it is practically nonexistent. I have had one appraisal six months after I transferred, and three different line managers! I have now been told that redundancy for me is very likely, as they are attempting to make what was once a thriving sentencing option into a skeleton service. If you are a victim of crime you would like to believe that the offender will be held to account and required to complete the sentence set out at court. This is not the case - because we work in a target driven culture. The emphasis is to get the offender through the order so it can be viewed as a successful completion - and to achieve this probation officers are expected to do whatever they can. So in reality there are no national standards, you cannot breach anyone and you can’t recall anyone - offenders rule the service. Previously an offender could have two missed appointments before they would be in breach and taken back to court now offenders get through their orders hardly setting foot in an office. Telephone calls are now classed as appointments, and any requirements such as programmes are overlooked, if they don’t want to do it then on the whole they don’t have to. We are expected to do anything and overlook everything in order to get a successful completion. The word public protection used to be the core of probation but now it’s not even considered. The job used to have integrity, but now we are at the mercy of people who don’t actually care about victims or potential victims. Instead they are lost in the system and the very reason why offenders are on probation is forgotten.I am a probation practitioner which involves risk assessment, and going out to prison wings to interview prisoners for accommodation, benefits, finances, relationships, health and wellbeing, and behaviour. We then action the issues they have, always bearing in mind the risk posed to the public. As you can imagine some prisoners have a multitude of issues. We then have to try and find the allocated officer in the community, which is difficult now as splitting the service has made this a very tiring and arduous task.Before the split I would have had the support of managers including supervision. Now it is nonexistent and we are expected to run innumerable caseloads. We have to offer the above support services knowing they are not working. We have been de-skilled as officers due to not having support with what we are supposed to be delivering in custody, such as interventions. We are not coping with the changes that the government have imposed and hand-in-hand with the current state of the prison, police and our service, I am fearful of the future. I am afraid for the public given that prisoners are leaving without appropriate services in place, with one of the worst hit areas being mental health. I am very aware of people leaving custody with no support because there is none. I work in a Midlands court team. I write sentencing reports, cover criminal sentencing courts and provide information to the courts about any current cases. I interview individuals and then provide a proposal for sentence. I am supposed to look at risk levels and ways to reduce reoffending, ways to rehabilitate and ways to keep known persons and the public safe. This is nigh on impossible when we don’t even know what privately run companies are actually providing. Our team has had seven different managers over the last two years. Staff moral is at an all time low.We basically lie when proposing sentences in our reports. We tell judges and magistrates that particular lines of work will be done when in reality, clients are never seen and go weeks without appointments. Drug and alcohol services are nigh on useless and it takes weeks to set up any type of prescription for them. Clients are released with literally nothing and nowhere to go and then appear back in court for shop theft of food - what a surprise.Relatives of those who died in the Glasgow bin lorry crash have failed in their attempt to bring a private prosecution against the driver who killed six people after he fainted at the wheel.Senior judges at the appeal court in Edinburgh rejected the case – brought by the family of three of the crash victims – that 59-year-old Harry Clarke should be put on trial in an exceptionally rare private criminal prosecution, after warning that to allow it would “open the floodgates” for similar prosecutions.The family of three of the victims of the 2014 crash, Erin McQuade and her grandparents Jack and Lorraine Sweeney, pursued the highly unusual legal route after the Crown Office refused to charge Clarke over their deaths, despite a fatal accident inquiry finding that he had lied about his medical history.Stephenie Tait, 29, Jacqueline Morton, 51, and Gillian Ewing, 52, also died in the crash.The relatives, as well as the driver, were granted legal aid for the case in March by the Scottish government’s justice secretary, Michael Matheson.At the time, Matheson said: “Private prosecutions are, and should remain, exceptionally rare in Scotland. However, in light of the unique and special circumstances of this case, which raises fundamental questions that have not previously been tested in case law, Scottish ministers believe it is in the public interest that all parties are adequately represented.”The fatal accident inquiry in the summer of 2015 heard that Clarke had a history of health issues including a previous blackout in 2010 at the wheel of a stationary bus, but he had repeatedly failed to disclose his medical background to his employers or the DVLA.Six people were killed and eight seriously injured after the out-of-control bin lorry ploughed into a crowd of pedestrians in Glasgow city centre just before Christmas, scattering pedestrians “like pinballs”, in the words of onlookers.The accident happened at 2.30pm on Monday 22 December on busy George Square when the area was teeming with Christmas shoppers and visitors to the ice rink and amusements in the square.The judges Lady Dorrian, Lord Menzies and Lord Drummond Young had been considering the bill for criminal letters since hearing final arguments in the case in October, and ruled on Friday that the family could not pursue a private prosecution of Clarke.The court also rejected a similar plea for a private prosecution of motorist William Payne lodged by the families of students Mhairi Convy and Laura Stewart, who were knocked down and killed in Glasgow in 2010.The two women, who were aged 18 and 20, were walking in the city’s North Hanover Street when a Range Rover being driven by William Payne mounted the kerb and hit them after he blacked out at the wheel.During earlier hearings, which could not be reported at the time, the lord advocate James Wolffe QC argued there was “not sufficient evidence to support prosecution” in either case. He also argued that prosecutors must be free to take unpopular decisions.John Scott QC, representing Clarke, told the court that the prosecution bid wanted to rely on the fatal accident inquiry conclusions, but the determination of the sheriff was not admissible in evidence. The solicitor advocate said other parties had started considering private proceedings in other cases, and to grant this one could “open the floodgates”.Phil Shiner has admitted paying an agent to find him clients and acting improperly in claiming UK army mistreated civiliansThe supreme court has been urged to throw out a momentous legal challenge to the government’s powers to trigger Brexit, with Downing Street lawyers claiming parliament’s support for exiting the EU was conclusively demonstrated this week.In closing remarks at the end of a four-day hearing, James Eadie QC, appearing for the government, said a House of Commons vote held on Wednesday that backed leaving the bloc by 448 to 75 was “legally relevant” to the complex case.The politically sensitive dispute, which began in the high court, is over whether the government or parliament has legitimate authority to trigger Brexit by giving formal notice to Brussels under article 50 of the Treaty on European Union of the UK’s intention to depart. The lower court backed the claimant, finding that parliament should give the final approval to begin the process.Because of the urgency and significance of the constitutional issues, 11 justices are sitting together for the first time on the supreme court bench to hear the government’s appeal.If the justices uphold the high court decision, they are likely to have to decide whether primary legislation would be needed. The three high court judges last month merely said that it was for parliament to decide how to proceed.Addressing the supreme court at the end of Thursday’s hearing, Eadie said: “No doubt [the Commons motion] is not legally binding but that does not mean it’s not legally relevant. It’s politically significant.”Lord Pannick QC, counsel for the lead claimant, Gina Miller, has argued that a formal act of parliament, involving majorities in both the Commons and Lords, is required constitutionally to override the 1972 European Communities Act which paved the way for the UK to join what was then the European Economic Community.Eadie agreed that if the supreme court found against the government, then legislation would be needed. “If you declare the exercise of [the government’s] prerogative powers to be unlawful, you are in effect requiring primary legislation.”Closing the hearing, the president of the supreme court, Lord Neuberger, said: “We are not being asked to overturn the result of the EU referendum. The ultimate question in this case concerns the process by which that result can lawfully be brought into effect.“As we have heard, that question raises important constitutional issues, and we will now take time to ensure that the many arguments which have been presented to us orally and in writing are given full and proper consideration.” The court is expected to deliver its judgment before the end of January.A statement released by the attorney general, Jeremy Wright QC, said: “The country voted to leave the European Union, in a referendum approved by an act of parliament. The government has argued throughout that no further act of parliament is needed to begin the process of leaving the EU.“There was a universal expectation that the referendum result would be honoured. Parliament will be closely involved in the process of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU over the coming months and years. Only yesterday, MPs debated a Brexit motion in the house and the prime minister has committed to publishing the government’s plans for leaving the EU.”Miller said after the hearing: “People have been amazed at the incredible efficiency shown by the judges, the lawyers and all of the parties involved in this case, who have shoe-horned around two years of work into six months to ensure the PM can trigger article 50 before the end of March.“The tone of this week’s proceedings from everyone involved and many parts of the media showed respect, civility and professionalism and I very much hope that this will continue throughout the process of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU.“Parliament debating and voting on a motion or resolution simply won’t suffice. I hope that the supreme court will uphold the high court ruling that article 50 cannot be triggered using the royal prerogative. Our case is that prerogative powers end where domestic law begins. Only parliament can grant rights and only parliament can frustrate, nullify or displace rights.”Earlier in the day, the supreme court heard arguments that triggering article 50 without consulting the devolved assemblies in Cardiff, Edinburgh and Belfast would dissolve “the glue” that holds together the UK’s unwritten constitution.The Sewel convention says that if Westminster is introducing legislation on issues that have been devolved, it “normally” has to seek the consent of the devolved assemblies in Edinburgh, Belfast and Cardiff.Richard Gordon QC, for the Welsh government, told the court: “The force of the Sewel convention is not its legal enforceability but that it’s a dialogue between legislatures … A convention is a very important force in our society and it’s like the glue which can only hold an unwritten constitution together.”Helen Mountfield QC, for the crowdfunded People’s Challenge, accused the government of fictional creativity and myth-making in its assertion of its prerogative powers. “It’s much like attempts to catch the Loch Ness monster,” she said. “Because no one has caught it, it is said to be assumed to still roam free.”The online betting site Betfair was giving odds of more than 4-1 on for Miller and the other claimants to defeat the government in the final judgment.Four days is just a blink of an eye for lawyers used to charging by the minute. Left to their own devices, everyone at the supreme court would have been much happier dragging things out for a couple of years – finally reaching a decision on whether the government had the constitutional right to trigger Brexit long after Britain had left the EU. But needs must and there was a noticeable sense of disquiet – not to mention haste – as the proceedings entered their final day.After some discussion about the semantic differences between “with regard to” and “relating to” and the epistemology of “imposing a clamp on a conduit pipe”, Richard Gordon, the barrister representing the Welsh assembly, declared that the whole case wasn’t nearly as complicated as everyone had been making out.“A child of six could respect this point,” he said.Obviously. Any fool must have realised that Kung Fu Panda 2 was a metaphor for constitutional law.“I’ve just pulled up the constitution of Trinidad and Tobago which we’re all very familiar with,” announced Lady Hale, apropos of not very much. Perhaps she was working on a different case. Gordon wisely ignored her.Of the 2015 Referendum Act he said: “It’s a statute that had died. It has fulfilled its purpose. You can’t revive a corpse by tearing up the death certificate.”Not for the first time article 50 was in danger of turning into a Monty Python sketch.Next up was the impressive Helen Mountfield, acting for the People’s Challenge, who was heard out in almost silence. Not one of the 11 judges even raised an eyebrow when she compared the government’s case to the search for the Loch Ness monster. Either they were spellbound by her command of the law or were worried about getting to lunch in time. A bit of both probably.After a quick post-prandial quibble with Patrick Green, speaking on behalf of the expats, over whether a Trojan Horse could be found in section five or section six of the 2008 EU act, Lord Keen, the government’s Scottish QC, was allowed to make a surprise guest appearance for the appellants.“If we are right or if we are wrong about the 1972 European Communities Act ...” he began. He hesitated, either for effect or because he had already lost his train of thought, before saying that he was right either way. Brilliant. He could be right, he could be wrong, but he would still basically be right.Last up was James Eadie, the QC with the short straw of restating the government’s case that had already been laughed out of the divisional courts. Eadie looked up at the clock with the eye of a condemned man. An hour. A whole hour to try to make the same points he had never really believed in when he’d opened the case on the previous Monday. In another world, he’d have just stood up and said: “I rest my case,” and dived for the exit. But now he had the eyes of the attorney general boring into his back.“We do not assert a power to repeal the Dangerous Dogs Act,” he gurned, trying to get things under way with a gag. Big mistake. Lord Pannick might have the easy charm to get away with making jokes about the Dangerous Dogs Act, but Eadie doesn’t. He’s just too awkward and within seconds he had several of the judges biting at his heels. What did he mean by that? Would he rather there was a Dangerous Dog Directive? Eadie turned puce and – presumably accidentally – implied that the Dangerous Dogs Act was a a far more important piece of legislation than the 1972 European Communities Act.With that a bad afternoon began to turn worse and Eadie was left to the defence of last resort. Throw up as many distractions as possible in the hope that the judges wouldn’t quite remember what the case was actually about. It didn’t appear to be working as Lord Mance appeared to have already heard enough and was demob happy.Speaking of the 1972 accession, he said: “Withdrawal was the last thing in your mind when you were getting married.”All of which was getting Eadie precisely nowhere and he soon found himself disagreeing with Lord Sumption on the issue of whether Britain had gone to war with Germany in 1939. That really might have been the only bit of the entire case a six year old could have followed.“You’re guessing,” teased Lord Carnwath, as Eadie disappeared up another cul-de-sac.On another point proposed by Carnwath, Eadie said: “If it helps us, it helps us.” Desperate.With a final throw of the dice, Eadie made a last-ditch reference to the Brexit vote in the Commons the previous day, implying that everything was tickety-boo.Sumption swatted him away. “If the resolution had been enough for your purposes, then there would have been no need for this appeal.”The clock moved to just past four. Time up. Eadie’s existential nightmare was complete.A human rights lawyer who was pursued by the government after an inquiry rejected allegations that British troops murdered and tortured Iraqi civilians has admitted paying a middle man to find his clients in Iraq.Your ability to influence change increases with your network.One of the greatest problems I discovered is that the feeling of helplessness is worse than the feeling of fear. I’m not talking about just any fear, but the fear of being chased by police and seeing tear gas canisters and rubber bullets fly by your head, knowing you might not be going home that night. The feeling of being in exile – of knowing that a loved one might be tortured right at that moment, and knowing that you cannot do anything to stop it from happening – that’s helplessness.There is also the need to understand that being on the outside means you cannot speak for those on the inside. I like to regard my activism in exile as being more in the form of a loudspeaker: my job is to make sure that people in Bahrain continue to be heard no matter how creative the regime is in trying to silence them. The most important factor is to remain connected – although this comes with its own problems.The internet means that despite being thousands of miles away I get real-time updates on everything that is happening on the ground in my country. This allows me to remain connected, to be aware of what is happening, and to react when necessary. But this also causes me to feel overwhelmed. There is a constant need to be connected, and I feel an anxiety about losing that connection. It almost becomes as if you are living in two worlds at the same time – and those worlds rarely meet.The biggest obstacle here is the surveillance and security risks that the internet carries. Connecting with people on the ground may mean placing them in danger, and you must be on high alert and diligent at all times regarding the digital security precautions you take. Activists living abroad tend to become more relaxed about surveillance and digital security because of the unaccustomed feeling of safety. With digital security, however, all those connected are only as secure as their weakest links, and activists in exile have to actively remind themselves about the risks faced by those they communicate with.Phil Shiner, whose most high profile case exposed the torture and death of Baha Mousa at the hands of British troops in Basra in 2003, has admitted a string of misconduct charges, a disciplinary tribunal was told on Thursday.Shiner faces being struck off by the solicitors disciplinary tribunal – bringing to an end a career in which he has been involved in a string of cases alleging systematic brutality and torture of prisoners by British troops and in doing so becoming a thorn in the side of the Ministry of Defence.The MoD has paid out more than £20m in compensation to more than 300 Iraqi civilians and the international criminal court is examining the way the British government is investigating hundreds of allegations against British troops.The tribunal was told on Thursday that Shiner had sent a letter admitting eight allegations of acting without integrity, including one charge that he acted improperly at a press conference in 2008 where he claimed the British army had unlawfully killed, tortured and mistreated Iraqi civilians at the battle of Danny Boy, near Amara in southern Iraq on 14 May 2004.Shiner admitted nine more charges in part, accepting that he acted without integrity but denying dishonesty.The admissions include that he encouraged and authorised an agent – referred to as Z – to make unsolicited direct approaches to potential clients arising from the 2014 battle of Danny Boy, near Amara in Iraq; that he provided financial benefits to Z to cause or persuade him to change his evidence about how the clients had been identified; and that he on several occasions authorised, procured and approved the payment to Z of improper fees, including a £25,000 payment on 30 March 2009. For the latter charge he denied that the fee related to legal aid cases.He has denied six allegations including misleading the £23m al-Sweady inquiry and the legal services commission over legal aid grants. A full hearing will now take place on 23 January next year.Andrew Tabachnik, putting the case against Shiner for the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA), said: “Even on the basis of his own admissions, Professor Shiner accepts this tribunal must strike him off at the end of this case.”The disciplinary case against Shiner was brought after the Al-Sweady inquiry, set up to examine whether British soldiers tortured and murdered detainees following the battle of Danny Boy, concluded in 2014 that the most serious claims brought were “the product of deliberate lies, reckless speculation and ingrained hostility”.The claims brought by Shiner’s Birmingham-based firm, Public Interest Lawyers, and another leading law firm, Leigh Day, fell apart when a letter was disclosed showing that some of the Iraqis were not civilians but members of the rebel Mahdi army.The then defence secretary, Michael Fallon, blamed the lawyers involved and branded their actions a shameful attempt to use the legal system to attack and falsely impugn the armed forces.Fallon accused Shiner’s firm of failing to cooperate with the royal military police’s initial inquiry into the incident, described his firm as having a “lucrative business model” and announced the SRA was investigating the firm.In February 2015 the MoD submitted a dossier of allegations against Shiner and his firm to the SRA, drawn up on the orders of the then prime minister, David Cameron.The MoD dossier detailed a series of allegations against Shiner and his firm and called for him to be fined and struck off. The document’s allegations appear to make up a large proportion of the charges against Shiner which were published on Thursday by the SRA.Shiner has not commented on the admissions. In interviews last year he denied wrongdoing and responded to the specific allegation that he used an agent, saying the MoD had failed to mention that its own Iraq historical allegations team (Ihat) also used and regularly paid the same agent to act as a chaperone for victims and witnesses.Shiner also accused the government of pursuing a personal vendetta against him in revenge for his work gathering hundreds of cases against British forces in Iraq.In August this year Shiner’s firm ceased operation after being stripped of its legal aid funding. At the time the prime minister, Theresa May, was said in a No 10 statement to be “very much pleased” at the closure of the firm as it reflected the government’s clampdown on “these types of spurious claims”.Her statement said: “The closure of PIL shows that we are making progress … tackling these types of firms head on to make sure we get the right outcome for our armed forces who show such bravery in the most difficult circumstances.”The high court has rejected an attempt by the owners of Southern rail to prevent train drivers from taking industrial action.The operators of Southern, Govia Thameslink Railway, had argued that the action by members of the Aslef union, which includes an overtime ban as well as impending strikes, was contrary to European law guaranteeing the rights of people to travel and of companies to invest, with GTR being partially owned by the French firm Keolis.But the judge, Sir Michael Burton, turned down GTR’s bid for an injunction. The company has said the journeys of hundreds of thousands of commuters will be severely affected, with no trains at all expected to run during three days of strikes by drivers next week.The overtime ban was overwhelmingly endorsed by a ballot of Southern drivers in Aslef. It is part of a long-running dispute about Southern’s plans to bring in more driver-only operated trains. A smaller but clear majority voted to strike as well.The overtime ban by drivers is likely to have a more significant effect than the parallel series of strikes by Southern’s conductors from the RMT union, with Southern now warning of severe daily disruption until further notice. A shortage of drivers has left it reliant on voluntary overtime to fill rosters.Mick Whelan, the general secretary of Aslef, said the legal case by GTR was a waste of money. “Southern, Britain’s worst private train company, has wasted shareholders’ money, passengers’ money and taxpayers’ money – because the company has been handsomely subsidised by the Conservative government – on a case it was always going to lose,” he said.“Now the company should do the right thing and sit down with us and negotiate – properly, sensibly and in good faith – to do a deal for the benefit of passengers, staff and, yes, the company. Just like ScotRail did with us earlier this year.”Nick Brown, the chief operating officer of Govia Thameslink Railway, said: “Naturally we are disappointed. The judge said that such unprecedented strike action by Aslef would cause massive disruption to the public.“The judge also said the widespread use of trains using driver operation is perfectly safe both in Southern and elsewhere in the UK. We brought this action for the benefit of our passengers. The judge has given us permission to go to the court of appeal, which we will now consider with our legal team.”Whelan said the union was happy to talk to GTR but that the company had not been prepared to negotiate. He said this stance had been encouraged by the Department for Transport.“Chris Grayling, the secretary of state for transport, said this strike was political. A line which has been parroted by GTR. But it’s not. It’s industrial. Driver-only operation is inherently unsafe.”The news came on the third and final day of another strike by RMT conductors on Southern, but the first during which the overtime ban was also applied, leaving Southern running only about half of its normal service.The company said train services on Friday, when the RMT strike will have ended, would still be severely reduced across much of Southern and on the Gatwick Express.Alex Foulds, the deputy chief operating officer of GTR, said: “Tomorrow is the first day when Aslef’s overtime ban will be felt on a non-strike day. We’re sincerely sorry but passengers are advised services will be severely reduced and, on some routes, cancelled altogether. We will put on rail replacement buses where we can. We urge people to check before they travel on the day.”When we had quite settled in our first Australian home, to find thenearest Church of England was a consideration. To find our parish (St.Laurence’s) church was a disused brewery was another terrible shock tomy mother’s idea of the fitness of things. However, when the incumbentproved to be a clever Oxford M.A. and fine preacher, her troubles inthis respect ended. To me it was the greatest gain to become one of hischildren; he was so kind, loving, and genial, and had that great gift ofleading young men and women to see in religion the love and pity of God.Out of that one parish, extending then over many miles, there are now atleast ten made, each with a church and congregation much larger thanthose of the old mother parish.It was a pleasant walk across the racecourse, now called Hyde Park, tothe Domain and Botanic Gardens. In another direction miles of sandhills;in another, towards Wooloomooloo, there were lovely walks by the watersof the harbour. For six months I practically lived out of doors, theclear fresh air was so exhilarating, except when a strong southerly windwas blowing; then it became anything but pleasant, as the sand from thehills, mixed with the pulverised clay of the roads, formed a dust whichcovered and penetrated everything and everywhere. This was generallyknown as a “Brickfielder.”My father had letters of introduction to many residents in Sydney,Elizabeth Bay, Darling Point, and Rose Bay; and visiting at theseplaces, we soon found that New South Wales was not wanting in culturedgentlemen and families. The reason for stating this is that I find,since returning to England, it is thought by some “that people in thoseearly days of Australia lived almost like savages,” and “that colonialsociety was composed only of very low people.” How different was thereality, for in many houses we enjoyed the society of educated andscientific men, and of accomplished and gentle women, surrounded by allthe comforts and refinements of life.The same air campaign has crippled the country’s agricultural infrastructure, for no acceptable military purpose. And the humanitarian crisis created by the conflict is increasingly desperate, with millions now facing famine.All this, and yet the UK government continues to arm and advise the Saudi-led coalition prosecuting this conflict, and has angrily rebuffed Labour’s calls for that support to be suspended until alleged Saudi violations of international humanitarian law have been properly and independently investigated.If this were just evidence of a government with its head in the sand on human rights, that would be bad enough.But Boris Johnson’s remarks in Rome, revealed by the Guardian this week, indicate something far worse. The foreign secretary is all too aware that Saudi Arabia and other countries are fighting proxy wars in the Middle East, with millions of civilians trapped in the crossfire, and yet he continues to sell Riyadh the arms to wage those wars. It is hypocrisy of the highest order.The schools in the colony were few and far between. The chief were theSydney Grammar School, Normal Institution in Sydney, and the King’sSchool, Parramatta; the latter being a boarding-school for boys, wheremost of the young Australians were educated. Dr. Forrest, one of theearly principals of the school, from all I have heard, was a secondArnold. One of his pupils in later days filled his former master’s placeworthily and efficiently, after working some years in a country parish.He only resigned his position a few years ago, when a master fromEngland was appointed, but since I left Australia last year anotherchange has been made, and a new master has just arrived there. Only oneladies’ school of note had been established at this time.The schools certainly were of the best, and conducted by men and womenwho understood their duties, and I have often questioned whether theadvantages of the present system of education in the colonies is animprovement on the past. Everything is now made so easy, books of allkinds and on all subjects doing away with any necessity for thought,and therefore any special talent or genius in the pupil may wither ordie for want of the stimulant to exertion, and this generation, I amafraid, like our Australian parrot, will only repeat the words ofothers.Our family were to a certain extent for a time independent of schools,as both our parents were above the average in intellect and knowledge ofbooks. My father was a great reader, especially on all subjectsconnected with natural history, a great lover of the stage, and anenthusiastic entomologist, having a splendid collection of Englishspecimens in two cabinets he brought to Australia. My mother was also agreat reader, well informed in history, biography, and all the writersof the day. Shakespeare was a household word, and most of his plays Ihave heard read by both, each taking part. All the chief poets’ workswere well known to them. We had Byron, Scott, Wordsworth, Campbell,Rogers, Shelley, Pope, and Moore as our guests of an evening: Bulwer,Thackeray, and Dickens, the latter personally known to my father; infact, all the best writers of the day were our teachers. I have alwaysbeen a quick and insatiable reader as long as I can remember, and havinga good library to gratify my desires, I only required some one to directme and talk over the books I read to finish an education begun early inEngland. My mother soon found a French lady to teach us French, music,and singing, so for the first year we only attended her classes.Sydney and its suburbs to-day are, I need scarcely say, very differentfrom what they were when my mother thought “Redfern out in the countryand a dreadful place.” When we were at Liverpool she drove out toRedfern one day, and it was unfortunately after a bush fire, so that forsome miles nothing but dark charred trees were to be seen. It was herfirst and last visit beyond Parramatta, which could be reached by water;she never would go into the country again. Since those days I have oftensat by her grave, on the highest part of the Church of England Cemeteryin Elizabeth Street, and thought, as I looked on the panorama spreadbefore me on every side, “What would she think of the city of the GoldenSouth now?” What has been done in only forty years since we left herthere is marvellous; then there was only just a fringe of civilisationand progress on its coasts. No railways, few churches; the interior ofthe country almost uninhabited, reached only through mere tracks orroads, nearly impassable, only traversed by that band of pioneers, thesquatters,--a terribly maligned people--who had explored and made thecountry. Only those who have lived amongst them on far-away stations canever realise what the squatters had to endure before “the desertblossomed like the rose,”--losses by fire, drought, floods, and theraids of the Blacks and bushrangers; roads impassable, drays withsupplies kept weeks on the roads, while anxiously looked for. Faminesometimes stared them in the face, for delicate women and children couldnot exist upon meat alone. Just before our arrival things were in aterrible state; my father could have bought thousands of sheep atsixpence a head, and this price included homestead, improvements,horses, and lease of land. I have sometimes heard later colonists say:“The squatters want it all their own way.” If they do, surely they havea right to a large share of the cake they certainly made under mosttrying conditions.I have often ridden through townships, the nucleus of which was thehomestead of some early settler; or in later days whirled in the trainin a few hours to what once took weeks to reach, for sometimes drayswould be delayed for months through the rivers being up. Then eventhough money was made, consider the isolated life of the squatter. Oncea year a visit to Sydney to sell their wool and purchase supplies. Itwas my good fortune to meet many of these squatters, and certainly, Imust say, better informed, more intellectual, and often accomplishedmen, I have never met. Certainly some were quiet in manner, owing, nodoubt, to the nature of the lives they were leading away from mixedsociety. Many were from the old country, and sons of military and navalmen. I need scarcely say, though they were unused to the society ofladies, their behaviour was always gentlemanly. I have heard at times intown “they were a little wild”; but who can wonder, after months ofsolitude, without any softening and refining influence, that the oldAdam should become master! Well, well, the noble, hospitable,single-minded, real squatters will soon die out, but their children, intheir native country, or settled in other lands, should never beashamed to own their fathers or country. I fancy I hear some say, “Buthow about the first colonists; who were they?” To this I will answer inthe words of Him who was the truest and holiest teacher, “He that iswithout sin, let him cast the first stone.” How many men and women werethere in the days I write of amongst all classes, and in every station,who were as guilty and sin-stained as those referred to, but were notfound out? In my long sojourn in Australia I have met with some of them,and many of their descendants, but, with very few exceptions, have foundthem kind, generous, and clever, like other folk--in fact, better thanmany who have emigrated. Above all, fond and proud of their nativeland--the land that gave freedom to their ancestors, and in mostinstances an independence which they could scarcely have attained to inthe old country. No wonder an Australian is proud of his country, whichappears to me the most wonderful example of the determined energy of theAnglo-Saxon race. When I used to wander through the Exhibition of 1880,this was always present in my mind, “Less than one hundred years agothis country was untrodden by the white man. Where this beautifulbuilding now stands, there were only the Gunyahs or homes of the poorsavages. That glorious stretch of ocean unknown, and now---- but wordsof mine can ill express the change.” But, my fair Australian maidens andstalwart sons, remember, though your fathers helped to make this changethrough determination and energy, and the lessons learned in the olderand more experienced land of their birth, the danger of thinking, “Wecan do without England,” I cannot advise you too strongly to guardagainst, as it is both unwise and ungrateful. Your country is a verybeautiful one, but not faultless; it has one feature to prevent it frombecoming quickly populated--want of rivers that are permanentlynavigable. In this it is so different from America, where water carriageis generally practicable and cheap. But the children, like the country,are young, and youth is always a little unreasonable. With this warningI will finish this chapter, only adding, be strong to write, each one apage of your life’s history, to improve the present, and adorn thefuture annals of your country.ised Barack Obama’s administration for being too complacent after the 2013 revelations by the NSA whistleblower, Edward Snowden, and making only modest concessions to privacy concerns rather than carrying out major legislative changes.The concern comes after Snowden dismissed fears for his safety if Trump, who called him “a spy who has caused great damage in the US”, was to strike a deal with Vladimir Putin to have him extradited.Snowden, in a video link-up from Moscow with a Netherlands-based tech company on Thursday, said it would be “crazy to dismiss” the prospect of Trump doing a deal but if personal safety was a major concern for him, he would not have leaked the top-secret documents in the first place.Snowden, wanted by the US on charges under the Espionage Act, found asylum in Russia in 2013 but his visa is due to expire in July. Privacy and human rights campaigners in the US and UK say a Trump presidency will tip the balance between surveillance and privacy decisively towards the former. The UK surveillance agency GCHQ is so tied up with America’s NSA, often doing work on its behalf, it could find itself facing a series of ethical dilemmas.The first full day of strike action by Aslef will be next Tuesday, 13 December, with two more days to follow on Wednesday and Friday, as well as six consecutive days in January.“Peter Kyle, Labour MP for Hove and chair of the all-party parliamentary group on Southern Rail, said he believed that it would be first time since 1994 that London Victoria-Brighton trains had been completely stopped by strikes. “The prospect of not a single Southern train running on Tuesday will be a catastrophe for passengers, businesses and the wider economy during the busy Christmas period. There is now no end in sight to this misery.“The government now offers the only way out of the situation so ministers must stop hiding in the shadows of this dispute and become an active partner in finding a resolution.”Phil Shiner has admitted paying an agent to find him clients and acting improperly in claiming UK army mistreated civiliansArtist Alison Jackson has said that she chose to self-publish spoof photographs of Donald Trump as part of a protest against the potentially chilling effect a “litigious” president could have on artistic freedom.The celebrity lookalike specialist said she was warned by her lawyers against publishing the images, some of which feature a Trump lookalike in compromising situations, and that no book publisher was prepared to release a collection of the Trump images.Vanity Fair and the Mail Online have published some of the images. However, no publisher has shown some of the most politically sensitive pictures she has produced, including one in which a Trump character is depicted with members of the Ku Klux Klan and another where he is shown holding a rifle.“It is a little frightening. Nobody wants to end up in litigation with the president. But I find it outrageous that artists should be under threat from a president in the US,” Jackson said.“I wanted to publish photos that I wanted to shoot but it’s very difficult to get other publishers to publish a work if they feel any type of threat or if they are worried in any shape or form. I don’t even think it’s a question of taste … It’s legal.”Jackson self-published her book, Private, which was released at the end of October. Previously Penguin has published coffee table editions of her work featuring apparently intimate spoof pictures of the Royal family, Tony Blair and the Clintons as well as celebrities from the Beckhams to Kanye West.According to newspaper analysis during the election, Trump and his businesses had been involved in at least 3,500 legal actions over the past three decades. Since his election, Trump has spoken warmly of British libel laws. His wife, Melania, is currently suing the Daily Mail and a blogger for $150m (£119m) over allegations about her modelling career.Earlier this year, artist Illma Gore received thousands of death threats after her images of a naked Trump with a small penis went viral. The LA-based artist asked a London-based gallery to manage the sale of the painting but was threatened with legal action from an anonymous filing under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the US if she sold the painting.Jackson was outraged by the case, comparing Gore to Ai Weiwei, the Chinese dissident artist arrested at Beijing airport in 2011 and held for 81 days without charge. “Of course I’m worried about being sued,” said Jackson. “It is horrifying to find out that you could be sued by a president,” she said. “But that is better that not being able to work.”Some of Jackson’s images of Trump are explicit – one depicts the US president-elect having sex with Miss Mexico in the Oval Office. “If we start compromising artistic freedom, that’s not a happy place,” said Jackson. “Whether it’s artists or cartoonists or satirists, there has to be free and radical thinking. Without that we get into the realms of dictatorship.”The British artist said she has never faced legal threats before. “This is a whole new arena,” she said, pointing out that increased scrutiny was part of being in the public domain. “Isn’t it unprecedented to think that a president would take legal action?”As part of her preparations, Jackson staged a fake presidential cavalcade in New York with the fake Trump and scantily clad “first ladies” ahead of his election. The exercise quickly created a scene, she added.Jackson said: “The ‘Trump’ in NY was extraordinary and I nearly didn’t do it at all as everyone was so frightened of what might happen.” Despite being stopped several times by the police, members of the public formed “flash mobs”, which meant that the police “ended up escorting us to the Trump Tower.”All kinds of artistic endeavour, from the cast of the Hamilton musical to Saturday Night Live have also come under fire from Trump directly. Most recently the Saturday Night Live sketch starring Alec Baldwin which imagined the president elect constantly tweeting unknown teenagers and possible bigots while in the middle of a security briefing provoked Trump who tweeted:Forced to consider the threat of legal action by her lawyers, who have never given such warnings before, Jackson said she had to fight against self-censorship. “It makes you frightened, it makes you put the brakes on and that is very worrying.”She admits that she will probably “think very carefully” about future work. “I don’t want to be sued and I really don’t want to be sued by the next US president.”Fundamental to the government case is this prerogative conferring ancient royal powers, including to make treaties, on politicians. The government argues that it is these powers that allow ministers to trigger article 50 without parliamentary legislation.The European Referendum Act 2015, which determined that a vote would take place, was silent on what would happen next. By contrast, legislation on the 2011 alternative vote referendum obliged the government to change the law accordingly if a “yes” vote occurred.Two justices, including the court’s president, Lord Neuberger, even suggested that the parliamentary motion – subsequently carried – to trigger article 50 might preclude the need for legislation. Lawyers for the respondents insist that an act of parliament is necessary.As well as interpreting the scope of the royal prerogative, it is being asked to tackle questions about the devolution settlement.The government contends that because the European Referendum Act 2015 made no provision preventing the use of its prerogative, it follows it can use it to trigger article 50. But the other side claims that because there was nothing in the act about the legal effect of the referendum, it was only advisory and so parliamentary legislation is required.James Wolffe QC, the lord advocate representing the Scottish government, confirmed this. But given the impact on Scottish citizens, he said the UK government should seek a legislative consent motion from Holyrood, which requires the Scottish parliament to approve any changes in its powers and responsibilities.This is a provision added to a bill to enable ministers to repeal or amend it after it has become an act of parliament. Article 2(2) European Communities Act 1972 allowed ministers to amend UK law to comply with EU acts.As befitting such an important case, both Sky and the BBC broadcast most of the opening day’s proceedings on their news channels but coverage tailed off as the case progressed. Intricate legal argument, arcane vocabulary and historical precedents have not proved to be riveting viewing.There was much mirth over the pronunciation of De Keyser, the most important historical case on the royal prerogative, which culminated with Lord Pannick QC quipping: “You say De Keezer, I say De Kaiser.”Lord Sumption wore a piano keyboard design tie on one day and on another a colourful 2012 Olympic Team GB tie, interpreted by some as a reassurance of his patriotism or a gesture of support for the master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton, formerly an Olympic fencer, one of three high court judges branded “enemies of the people” by the Daily Mail.The opaque language used to capture the complex interplay of executive powers and parliamentary legislation might sound like it was designed to stifle the comprehension of the passenger on the proverbial Clapham omnibus.Not all of the legalese was Latin, although Lord Neuberger did resort to “de bene esse”. ‘Ambulatory’, suggesting something easily removed, came up frequently.There was much talk of painful-sounding ‘clamps’ on the royal prerogative and of turning the European Communities Act 1972 into a ‘conduit’ - presumably in order to flush it’s contents into the North Sea. Since the supreme court always provides lucid summaries of its judgments, the outcome, at least, should be perfectly clear.Ohio has moved one step closer to outlawing bestiality after a bill banning sexual abuse of animals passed the state legislature.It is currently legal to have sex with animals in nine US states, plus Washington DC.John Kasich, Ohio’s governor, will now decide whether to sign the bill, which also prohibits the sale of animals for sex.The bill is the result of a lengthy campaign by the Humane Society of the United States, an animal welfare charity which is aiming to ban bestiality nationwide.“The passage of animal sexual abuse legislation is a great victory for the animals of Ohio,” said Leighann Lassiter, animal cruelty policy director at the Humane Society.Lassiter and the bill’s sponsors, Ohio senators Jim Hughes and Jay Hottinger, have stated that animal abuse can often be a precursor to the abuse of children.“This legislation will give law enforcement and prosecutors the ability to identify potentially dangerous sexual predators who may also be abusing children in their community,” Lassiter said.Once Kasich receives the bill he will have 10 days to sign it into law or veto the legislation.If he chooses to do neither, the bill will pass into law by default.The bill prohibits a person from “sexual conduct” with an animal, but also targets what Lassiter described as “organized sex rings”.“There are people out there who train animals for sex,” she said. “You can give them your dog and they will train your dog to have sex with a human and send it back to you. And they get paid for it.“It is a very, very seedy world when it comes to animal sexual abuse and it is extremely common.”States where bestiality is illegal do have animal cruelty laws, Lassiter said, but these are often inadequate when it comes to people sexually abusing animals. A person sexually abusing an animal might only be prosecuted if the animal is injured, while livestock or wild animals may be exempt from existing law.“We’ve got cases of people grabbing birds and having sex with birds. And killing the birds. It is really really disturbing,” Lassiter said.People have advertised animals for sex on Craigslist and on specific bestiality websites, actions which are also not covered under some states’ existing cruelty laws.Lassiter said some states are lacking specific bestiality laws because animal sex abuse was covered under historic laws that also banned gay sex. In some cases when those laws were repealed bestiality was not reintroduced as an offense.Bestiality is currently legal in Vermont, Texas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Nevada, Hawaii, Wyoming, New Mexico and Ohio, and in Washington DC.The Humane Society is aiming to introduce legislation banning the practice in the first five of those states in 2017.A Scottish MP has told a House of Commons debate on violence against women that she was raped at the age of 14, moving colleagues to tears and declaring: “I’m not a victim. I’m a survivor.”Michelle Thomson, who was elected as an SNP member but withdrew from the party whip last year, told parliament: “When I was 14, I was raped.“As is common, it was by somebody who was known to me. He had offered to walk me home from a youth event and in those days everybody walked everywhere. It was quite common to do that.“It was early evening. It wasn’t dark. I was wearing – I’m imagining, I’m guessing – jeans and a sweatshirt. He told me he wanted to show me something in a wooded area and at that point, I must admit, I was alarmed. I did have a warning bell – but I overrode that warning bell because I knew him and therefore there was a level of trust in place. “To be honest, looking back, at that point I don’t think I knew what rape was. It was not something that was talked about.” Thomson added: “It was mercifully quick and I remember first of all feeling surprise, then fear, then horror as I realised I quite simply couldn’t escape – because he was stronger than me, and there was no sense even initially of any sexual desire from him, which I suppose, looking back, again I find odd.” The MP said she had felt “absolutely numbed” and ashamed but told no one about the incident.“I didn’t tell my mother, I didn’t tell my father, I didn’t tell my friends and I didn’t tell the police. I bottled it all up inside me,” she said. “I hoped, briefly and appallingly, that I might be pregnant so that would force a situation to help me control it.” She added: “I felt I was spoiled and impure and really felt revulsion towards myself.“I, of course, then detached from the child up to then I had been. Although, in reality, at the age of 14 it was probably the start of my sexual awakening, at that time, remembering back, sex was something that men did to women and perhaps this incident reinforced that early belief.” During the debate, a second MP recounted how she had been subject to an attempted rape and slept with a knife afterwards.Tracy Brabin, who was recently elected in Batley and Spen, succeeding the murdered Labour MP Jo Cox, said: “I was 20 and the worst thing that I could ever imagine happening to me was about to take place. I was going to be one of those very rare statistics of a woman who is attacked by a stranger, not by someone she knows. “I was in my second year at university. The man had seen me walk past his car and had waited ahead for me to turn the corner. As I came up against him all those words of advice your mum gives you – knee him where it hurts then run like hell – well, they disappeared. I was frozen in fear. The former Coronation Street actor added: “As he shoved me to the ground trying to rape me, I fought back but I was battered. It was only the community-spirited Indian neighbour further down the road that saved me from something much worse.” The MPs shared their personal stories as part of a debate to mark the UN International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women.A new tally of violence against women in England and Wales disclosed this week that more than 900 women had been killed by men over a six-year period, most by their current or former partners.Before the parliamentary session, more than 70 Labour MPs wrote to Theresa May asking that the government immediately ratify the Istanbul convention, an international agreement aimed at ending violence against women.The letter, organised by the Labour MP Seema Malhotra, notes that when she was home secretary May promised to tackle domestic violence and establish a cross-departmental strategy on tackling violence against women and girls, and that her government spoke out about such matters.“But, as we are sure you will agree, words are not enough,” it continues, adding that violence against women perpetrated by a partner or acquaintance increased rapidly between 2009 and 2014, as did reports of child sexual abuse and domestic violence.“Funding for staff who provide individual and tailored support for victims of violence to rebuild their lives and seek prosecution of their abusers is being cut,” the MPs say. “We believe that by their actions (and failures to act), your ministers are failing to deliver on your commitment to tackling sexual abuse and violence. We are therefore asking you to take leadership on these issues immediately.”Thomson, one of the cohort of SNP MPs elected following the nationalists’ gains in the 2015 general election, withdrew from the party whip last September 2015 after being linked to possible mortgage fraud.The party’s then business spokesperson said she had always acted within the law following confirmation from Police Scotland that it was investigating alleged irregularities in a series of property deals after the MP’s solicitor was struck off for professional misconduct.When the Guardian first exposed how police officers in England and Wales were abusing their power to sexually assault and exploit victims of crime, we had no idea of the scale of the problem. Today, we have more of a clue as Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary has revealed that hundreds of police officers are being accused of sexually abusing victims and suspects – and inspectors believe the problem is even more prevalent than the numbers suggest.Our original investigation was more than four years ago and was prompted by the conviction and subsequent jailing of Northumbria police constable Stephen Mitchell, who raped and sexually assaulted vulnerable women he met on duty. Examining the details of that case, various themes emerged; a lack of supervision, a failure to properly vet officers and the turning of a blind eye to the sexual exploits of male officers, in a still macho police service.With that thought in mind, we felt there had to be more officers out there abusing their position in such a way. Using the Freedom of Information Act we asked forces for figures on how many officers and community support officers had been convicted or disciplined for sexual assaults, rape and abusing their position to carry out sexual relationships with vulnerable women and girls.We revealed that 56 officers from 2008 to 2012 from 25 forces had been found to have raped, sexually assaulted, harassed or groomed victims or were waiting to be disciplined for their behaviour. They included constables and officers all the way up to deputy chief constable level. It seemed a large number. Indeed, one officer who chooses to exploit a victim of domestic violence in the hours after she has been attacked, when she is bruised and battered and at her most vulnerable, is an officer too many.But such predatory abuse of power was – as Claire Phillipson, from Wearside Women in Need said – “the untouched tip of an iceberg”.For decades in her work running women’s refuges in the north-east, she had witnessed officers turning up to the secret addresses and taking advantage of vulnerable, beaten, abused and terrified women who had fled violence. There was little anyone could do. It seemed unlikely that anyone would listen to the words of a drug addict, a prostitute, a woman with no money and no home, over a police office, even if she was brave enough to make a complaint.A police service in which a macho culture had existed for decades, where profound sexism was publicly expressed, had bred generations of officers who were able to be openly predatory. And as a police officer they had access to the personal information about victims to allow them to carry out their abuse.Subsequent inquiries over the years by the Guardian into the scale of this kind of police corruption were not willingly answered by the service. Some forces refused to supply figures on how many officers were under investigation for such offences, claiming to so could prejudice their inquiries, others said they did not have the information available and in doing so exposed a failure at the top to monitor and record such complaints.Some senior female officers embraced the information that the media reports had released into the public domain. In Nottinghamshire DS Jackie Alexander, then head of professional standards in the force, confronted the issue head on and raised it at the most senior levels within the service.But it has taken far too many years – and involved the exploitation of far too many women, girls and in some cases young men and boys – for the police service, the authorities and the political establishment to address what the HMIC is now calling “the most serious corruption issue facing the service”.It was only this year that Theresa May as home secretary made a welcome intervention, calling for the HMIC inquiry. But what is most concerning about the HMIC details is they expose that despite cultural changes in the police service, the increase in senior female officers and the apparent end of openly expressed sexism, there are still officers using their position to take sexual advantage of the people they are supposed to protect.Their behaviour is not isolated, and the victims appear carefully chosen – more than a third – 39% – of the allegations involved victims of domestic violence. What does that say about the promises of the police service to take seriously a crime which makes up a third of all recorded violent crime?Zero tolerance appears not to be applied when it comes to such behaviour. The HMIC said there is evidence that only 40 officers have been dismissed for abusing their position for sexual gain in the past two years. That is despite forces across England and Wales receiving 436 allegations against 306 officers, 20 community support officers and eight staff in the two years to March.More worrying, the failure by some forces to class the abuse of authority for sexual gain as a serious corruption issue, thus automatically referring it to the Independent Police Complaints Commission, is a sign there are senior officers at the top of the police service, who are still turning a blind eye.Triggering article 50 without consulting the devolved assemblies in Cardiff, Edinburgh and Belfast would dissolve “the glue” that holds together the UK’s unwritten constitution, the supreme court has been told.On the final day of the four-day hearing, the 11 justices have been hearing arguments about the significance of the Sewel convention.The convention says that if Westminster is introducing legislation on issues that have been devolved it “normally” has to seek the consent of the devolved assemblies in Edinburgh, Belfast and Cardiff.Richard Gordon QC, for the Welsh government, told the court: “The force of the Sewel convention is not its legal enforceability but that it’s a dialogue between legislatures.“If the [UK government’s] prerogative powers can be used to short-circuit this dialogue, it’s to ignore the modern dynamic which we now have.“A convention is a very important force in our society and it’s like the glue which can only hold an unwritten constitution together.”Gordon dismissed the UK government’s argument that the Referendum Act 2015 gave ministers authorisation to trigger article 50, which formally signals the UK’s intention to leave the EU.“The Referendum Act has nothing to do with the issues in this case,” he said. “It’s a statute that had died. It has fulfilled its purpose. You cannot revive a corpse by tearing up the death certificate.”And turning to the government’s contention that it relies on residual royal prerogative powers, Gordon said: “There’s no existing prerogative powers … a child of six could understand this.”James Wolffe QC, Scotland’s lord advocate, also raised the importance of the Sewel convention, saying it should not be ignored even if it does not amount to a veto for Holyrood.“The convention constrains the UK parliament in order to respect the authority of the Scottish parliament,” Wolffe said.The Westminster parliament might legislate to trigger Brexit negotiations without the consent of the Scottish parliament, Wolffe anticipated.“If the consent would not be given, it would be for the UK parliament to legislate in the face of a refusal of consent. There would be no legal sanction if the UK parliament chose to do so,” Wolffe said.Manjit Gill QC, who represents the children of European Economic Area nationals who could be directly affected by Brexit, dismissed the government’s claim to possess prerogative powers to withdraw from the EU without legislation in parliament as an “outlandish proposition”.“As for [the government’s argument] that parliament can stand up for itself,” he added, “why should they have to react to what could be politically mischievous conduct by a usurping executive? This is not time to turn to a flexible constitution. It’s a slippery slope.” The court should not let go of the “bedrock” of accepted constitutional conduct.Gill said the children he represents were in danger of being told to “pack their bags and go” when Brexit occurred. “This case is not a hard case,” he said. “Some people [by which he means the government] are trying to make it hard and putting their counsel [James Eadie QC] in a position of contortions where they say contradictory things.“No one thought that the 2015 Referendum Act was ever intended to confer prerogative powers [on the government to withdraw from the EU without reference to parliament]. The reason for this is a political point because no one ever thought there was going to be a leave vote. That’s why there was no reason to consider prerogative powers.”Earlier Helen Mountfield QC, for the crowdfunded People’s Challenge, accused the government of fictional creativity and myth-making in its assertion of its prerogative powers. “It’s much like attempts to catch the Loch Ness monster,” she suggested. “Because no one has caught it, it is said to be assumed to still roam free.”The claim had been brought, she explained, “not as an attempt to persuade judges to usurp the powers of any other arm of the state in an illegitimate way or to persuade the court to undertake judicial law-making.” Nor is the court being asked to decide whether or not the UK should leave the EU. It is simply about whether the government’s plan to trigger Brexit “is a lawful act in the absence of express authority”.Michael Jordan has won part of his trademark case against a China-based sportswear company, following the retired basketball star’s years-long struggle for control over the rights to his Chinese name.In a ruling by the Chinese supreme court, Qiaodan Sports Co, based in south-eastern Fujian province, must stop using the Chinese characters for Qiaodan on its merchandise, according to a transcript of court records posted on an official website.The word is a Chinese rendering of Jordan’s name that is widely known by the country’s consumers.The supreme court did not stop the company from using phonetic spellings of Jordan’s Chinese name using the English alphabet, however, saying they do not infringe on his right to use his name in the country.“I am happy that the supreme people’s court has recognised the right to protect my name through its ruling in the trademark cases,” Jordan said in a statement.“Today’s decision ensures that my Chinese fans and all Chinese consumers know that Qiaodan Sports and its products have no connection to me.”The former Chicago Bulls player asked Chinese authorities in 2012 to revoke the company’s trademarks, which featured a similar name and logo to Jordan’s Nike-produced brand.The six-time NBA champion, who retired in 2003, accused the company of misleading consumers about its ties to him by using the name along with a silhouette of a leaping basketball player resembling the “Jumpman” logo used by Nike to promote its Air Jordan brand.Jordan filed his appeal to China’s highest court after his claims were rejected by two lower courts.China has long been seen as a counterfeiters’ haven and has constantly been criticised by its trade partners over lax protection of intellectual property rights.It remained on this year’s US priority watch list of trading partners that fail to protect such rights despite “welcome developments ... [in] legal and regulatory reform efforts, and encouraging developments in individual cases in China’s courts”, according to the committee that compiles the list.Qiaodan Sports Co could not be reached for comment.Nine-year-old Xidollien has no idea that the vanilla pods he and his family so painstakingly cultivate throughout the year on their small vanilla farm in the north of Madagascar is one of the most valuable spices in the world.He hides behind his mother, Liliane, as she stands among the family’s vanilla plants . He has spent all morning clearing weeds from the land with a machete. Tomorrow will be the same for him and thousands of other children in the northern region of the island.Roughly 80% of the vanilla sold on the global market comes from Madagascar. Madagascan vanilla is used in chocolate, cakes and ice-cream sold to consumers around the globe by some of the world’s biggest brands.Yet, according to a new report by research and media centre Danwatch, the vanilla supply chain is keeping farmers like Xidollien and his family locked in a cycle of exploitation, poverty and child labour.In small communities in Madagascar’s Sava region, the heavy workload involved in growing vanilla and the poor price that farmers receive for their pods mean child labour is often a necessity. Malnutrition and child stunting are realities of family life.Vanilla is the second most expensive spice in the world. Prices fluctuate, but industry reports show the commodity is currently selling at between $200 (£160) and $400 a kilo. Xidollien’s mother, Liliane, gets just £6 a kilo for the family’s vanilla pods from the “collectors”, young men on motorbikes who come to the village to buy the pods after each harvest. She has no idea where her crop ends up. “I sell to a collector. When it goes, it’s gone,” she says with a shrug.Rajao Jean, president of a local farmers’ association, says that when farmers become desperate for food during the long wet months, the same collectors return to offer a “vanilla flower contract” – loans to see them through to harvest. The collectors fix the price and return after harvest to collect their debt and the high interest it has accrued, buying the pods far below market value.Jean says that if farmers have a bad harvest or have their plants stolen, they can be forced to sell land, animals and possessions in an attempt to pay off this debt. He explains that a loan of £1 in March could have escalated to £10 by harvest time in July.The Danwatch report claims that the plight of Madagascan farmers has been largely ignored by exporters and retailers profiting from the $192m (£152m) trade in Madagascan vanilla.“The farmers are making a scarce profit,” says Jesper Nymark, executive director of Danwatch, adding that the investigation reveals a lack of traceability and transparency in supply chains. “Several of the importers and retailers we have spoken with are not able to say which specific farms their vanilla comes from, and whether there is vanilla in their supply chain that has been produced by children.”The International Labour Organisation estimates 20,000 children are working in the Madagascan vanilla trade, the majority of them in the Sava region. The country has ratified international child labour conventions and set a minimum working age of 15, but the ILO says there are 2 million children between the ages of five and 17 engaged in various forms of work on the island; nearly 9% of the total population.Liliane desperately wants Xidollien and his 14-year-old brother to get out of vanilla farming. “I would love for them to have an education, but I don’t know if it’s possible,” she says.She explains that while her oldest son, Yokle, pollinates the vanilla flowers, Xidollien spends the day weeding the field. After a hot morning of work she can only afford to feed her children a meal of boiled sweet potatoes and water from the muddy stream that runs through their field.Many here don’t consider children working alongside their parents as a problem. Tombo Tam Hun Man, 63, former mayor and now local vanilla kingpin in Andapa, one of the main towns in the vanilla-producing region, says that children helping in the fields is a natural way for them to learn about vanilla farming.Under Madagascan law, children must go to school until they are 14, but he admits that few children in the vanilla villages will get an education.“If you don’t start to teach your kids to do something, what will they do? It is better than nothing,” he says. With few government schools, private fee-paying schools are often the only option for farming families. There is no visible evidence of any infrastructure or investment in the vanilla communities by any of the exporters or retailers using Madagascan vanilla pods.The Madagascan authorities have attempted to regulate the vanilla trade, introducing a code of conduct in 2015. However, resources to implement the code are insufficient, says Bety Florent, president of the regional child labour committee. “We are still at a basic stage. There is still no effective measure,” she says, explaining that only 16 of 86 child labour committees proposed by the government have so far been set up in the region.“Retailers and importers are obliged by UN guidelines to do whatever [is] in their power to know their supply chain, and to correct violations of human rights if they occur,” says Nymark. “According to the experts we have talked to, there seems to be quite the task ahead in ensuring that people in Madagascar are supported, not exploited, as a consequence of the lack of transparency in the supply chain for the vanilla sold in local supermarkets.”Jean spent his childhood in the vanilla fields and hopes his children will have a different life. Yet next March the vanilla collectors will be back in the village, offering loans and making deals. For some farmers, the cycle will start all over again.This colourful, exuberant, brilliantly detailed account by Jerry White is the latest in a long list of irreplaceable books about London, all written as if the author were personally remembering what he describes rather than excavating it. This one, anatomising one of London’s most famous prisons, the Marshalsea debtors’ jail, bears a striking dedication, which remains at the heart of everything that follows: “To debtors everywhere.” His opening chapter etches a striking, Hogarthian panorama of the day-to-day experience of defaulters through the centuries, confronted with implacable creditors, back-street attorneys (the notorious pettifoggers), corrupt lawyers hiking up their fees, a callous judiciary and brutal jailers. And debt was no respecter of class: Daniel Defoe, Richard Steele, Henry Fielding, Tobias Smollett, Dr Johnson, Oliver Goldsmith and John Cleland all suffered its depredations.Never once does White, as he describes the vicissitudes of the prison itself, lose sight of the central sickening reality of debt – recurring, self-fulfilling, inescapable debt – as it affected the individual. The crushing hopelessness of the debtor’s situation is evoked in the epigraph to the book, a quotation from the entry on “Hard-up, floored, broke” in a late-19th century slang lexicon of which this stream-of-consciousness extract gives a flavour: “Dead-beat; basketed; bitched; buggered-up; busted; caved-in; choked-off; cornered; cooked; done brown; done for; done on toast; doubled-up; flattened out; fluffed; flummoxed; frummagemmed; burst; fleeced; stony; pebble-beached; in Queer Street; stripped; rooked; hard-up; hooped-up; strapped; gruelled.”The Dickensian vitality of this vocabulary of despair is testament to the ability of the human spirit to rise above misfortune, embodying the sort of trench humour much in evidence in White’s pages: the inmates habitually referred to their place of confinement as “this inchanted Castle”, “these Mansions of Misery”, and even “the College”. Mention of Dickens reminds us that if we know the name of the Marshalsea at all now, it is because of the immortality conferred on it by the great novelist in a series of works successively transmuting his childhood experience of his father’s incarceration there, through the high jinks of The Pickwick Papers at the beginning of his career to painful autobiographical self-revelation in David Copperfield, and culminating, in his grim maturity, with Little Dorrit’s vision of the world as a prison. One of many remarkable aspects of Mansions of Misery is its majestic progress through social history into literature, from sharp description of the reality of the prison and its inmates to a concluding celebration of its metaphorical existence, achieving by the end a quite extraordinary resonance.The Marshalsea was located in Southwark, the historic location of theatres, bear-pits and whorehouses, and was, to begin with, beyond the jurisdiction of both the cities of London and Westminster. It wasn’t until the mid-17th century that it settled into being exclusively a debtors’ jail. Then it was full to bursting: people could be thrown in for owing as little as sixpence. In which case, he or she was charged in “Execution”, which immediately increased the indebtedness to £1 5s 6d, making it much less likely that the prisoner could ever get out. “More unhappy People are to be found suffering under extream misery, by the severity of their creditors,” one commentator noted, “than in any other Nation in Europe.”The life of the jail offered, as Smollett noted in The Adventures of Roderick Random, a perfect microcosm of the world outside. Apart from anything else, the prison was divided into two: the haves and the have-nots, designated common-side and master-side. For a sense of what life was like for the haves, White has unearthed a star witness from the first half of the 18th century, John Baptist Grano, a musician – trumpeter, wind player and composer – of Italian origin, a convivial sort, an intemperate drinker and a socialite whose upwardly mobile aspirations had finally landed him in the clink. His wonderfully candid A Journal of My Life Inside the Marshalsea depicts a highly agreeable life. He regularly dined with the prison turnkey, William Acton, with whom he became very friendly – even attending his son’s christening.He shared a pleasant, clean cell – and indeed a bed – with one Adam Elder, and after drinking a number of bottles of good wine, once Elder had turned in for the night, “I sat up, sounded a dozen airs on the trumpet, Wash’d my Manhood, Legs and Feet, read a little and went to bed between 12 & 1.” Some nights Elder would pay the maid (a prisoner from the common-side) to have sex with him. Elder made love, uninhibitedly, on his half of the bed while Grano attempted to sleep on the other. But such mild inconveniences were rare; Grano’s rich friends made sure that life was tolerable. On one occasion, Lord Leeds sent in “motton, pigs and fowls”, which Grano sent out to be cooked and dressed. He was able to teach in prison, among his pupils being two young black trumpeters, and he continued to compose prolifically, notably a bassoon concerto, In Five Moods.Life on the poor side of the prison was another story altogether, recorded in a prison memoir with the sensational title of Hell in Epitome: or, A Description of the M-SH-SEA. That title was fully justified when Grano’s chum, Acton the jailer, a man of mercurial moods and violent contrasts, was brought to trial for the deaths of four prisoners. For a sizable sum of money Acton had sublet the running of the prison from the deputy marshal; if he defaulted on his dues, he would be thrown into prison himself. So it was greatly in his interest to extract any money due to him from the prisoners, whom he described as “Sons of Bitches”.News of the brutality at the Marshalsea finally provoked a parliamentary inquiry, which uncovered atrocious conditions: one defaulting prisoner was locked up with two dead bodies; he stayed with them for six days, “in which time the Vermin devoured the flesh from their faces, eat the Eyes out of the Heads of the carcasses, which were bloated, putrifyed, and turned green”. Other prisoners were assaulted with a hellish implement: “a bull’s pizzle, dried hard as teak, some three or four foot long with a swollen end like knobkerrie, a favoured weapon of butchers who were slaughtermen”. Astonishingly, and to the disgust of reformers everywhere, Acton was cleared.Reform slowly won the day: the establishment of the Society for the Discharge and Relief of Persons Imprisoned for Small Debts in 1773 hugely improved the situation, ensuring that charity reached its proper destination: a majority of prisoners now left after a short stay. Before long, the crumbling, fetid old prison was demolished and a new one built on the site: this is the Marshalsea where John Dickens was confined in 1824 when Charles was just 12, and where he stayed for 14 weeks.The whole family, apart from Charles and his sister Fanny, came to stay with them, including a maid. In addition to the pleasant rooms, there was an alehouse and a snuggery. “In every respect indeed but elbow-room,” Dickens told his biographer John Forster, “the family lived more comfortably in prison than they had done for a long time out of it.” Above all, they were free from the loud knocking at the street door, the abuse shouted up at them from the pavement for all the neighbours to hear. Thanks to the provisions of the Insolvent Debtors Act, John Dickens emerged from the prison and stepped into immortal life as Wilkins Micawber.But by the time Dickens wrote Little Dorrit, there was no place for such indomitable figures as Micawber: the picture of life in the Marshalsea is one in which, as White nobly writes, the prison stands “for the iron girdles of money and power binding the whole of contemporary society in a straitjacket that stifles initiative, creativity, mutual affection, even humanity itself”. When William Dorrit is finally released, a broken man, he is closely watched. “As they eyed the stranger in passing, they eyed him with borrowing eyes – hungry, sharp, speculative as to his softness if they were accredited to him, and the likelihood of his standing something handsome.” The Marshalsea ceased to be a prison in 1842; on the site has long stood a public library. Justice, finally, has been done.• Simon Callow is performing A Christmas Carol at the Arts theatre, London, until 7 January. Mansions of Misery: A Biography of the Marshalsea Debtors’ Prison is published by Bodley Head. To order a copy for £16.40 (RRP £20) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.Hundreds of police officers are being accused of sexually abusing victims and suspects in what a senior police watchdog has called “the most serious corruption issue facing the service”.Forces across England and Wales received 436 allegations of abuse of power for sexual gain against 306 police officers, 20 police community support officers and eight staff in the two years to March but inspectors believe the problem is even more prevalent than the numbers suggest.Despite the large numbers, there is evidence that only 40 officers or staff have been dismissed for abusing authority for sexual gain in a similar period.Vulnerable individuals, including domestic abuse victims, alcohol and drug addicts, sex workers and arrested suspects were among those targeted by officers and staff, Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) said.Victim groups have said the findings are “deeply concerning” and involved some of the most vulnerable people in society.Mike Cunningham, inspector of constabulary and former chief constable of Staffordshire police, said: “This is the most serious corruption issue facing the service. What can be worse than a guardian abusing the trust and confidence of an abused person? There can be no greater violation of public trust.”“It is probably more likely the problem is more serious than the numbers reported back to us,” he added.“In many cases the victims are vulnerable people. They are victims of domestic abuse, they’re victims who might have been arrested and they have drug or alcohol dependency. It is an exploitation of power where the guardian becomes the abuser.”One of the most high-profile cases of police officers abusing their power in recent history was that of Stephen Mitchell, who was jailed for life in 2011 for raping and sexually assaulting vulnerable women he had arrested.Mitchell, who was a constable with Northumbria police, abused heroin addicts, shoplifters and a disabled teenager by offering them help while in custody, then demanding sexual favours afterwards.Earlier this year, DS Robert Dawson, a Metropolitan police officer who had sex with a vulnerable alleged rape victim, was formally dismissed from the force. A tribunal heard that in 2010, while investigating an allegation of serious sexual assault, Dawson engaged in an inappropriate sexual relationship with the victim.PC Simon Salway, who had sex with vulnerable witnesses and victims of crime, and fathered a child with one of the women he exploited, was found guilty of six charges of misconduct in a public office at Luton crown court last year.HMIC found that more than a third (39%) of the allegations of abuse of authority for sexual gain involved victims of domestic abuse. As part of its research the inspectorate carried out an online survey of domestic abuse practitioners between July and August. Sixty-eight practitioners (16%) of the 414 who took part said victims of domestic abuse had disclosed that an officer or member of police staff had abused their authority to exploit them or develop an inappropriate relationship with them.The chief executive of the domestic violence charity Refuge, Sandra Horley, said: “Widespread reports of police officers exploiting women for sexual gain … are horrific – but unsurprising.“Refuge is glad HMIC’s report has shone a light on this issue, following a consultation with domestic violence practitioners including our frontline staff. The police are meant to protect the public from harm; how can women be expected to report their abuse, if they fear the police will abuse them all over again? Women have the right to safety and protection.“Refuge commends the work HMIC has already done in improving the police response to domestic violence; we hope this report will mean an end to what is an appalling abuse of power.”Mark Castle, chief executive of the independent charity Victim Support, said: “These allegations are deeply concerning. The victims involved are some of the most vulnerable people in our society, who have been exploited by the people they should be able to trust the most, the police.“In order to maintain public confidence in the police it’s critical that forces recognise this behaviour as the serious corruption that it is and report all cases to the IPCC to ensure that they are thoroughly and robustly investigated.”The HMIC findings formed part of a broader inspection of police legitimacy, which concluded victims’ satisfaction with the way they were treated by police remained high. The investigation was ordered by the then home secretary, Theresa May. But the inspectorate said forces still needed to become more proactive in rooting out officers and staff abusing power for sexual gain. This could involve profiling officers to single out those who might be likely to commit such abuse.Cunningham said one of the reasons the inspectorate believed the figures belied a greater problem was that forces in England and Wales did not have a consistent and coherent approach to tackling the problem.Not all forces class the abuse of authority for sexual gain as a serious corruption issue, which HMIC says they should. This would mean any allegation would be automatically referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) for investigation.HMIC was only able to find 40 cases on the national disapproved register in which officers or staff were dismissed for abusing power for sexual gain during the period in which more than 400 allegations were received.“What’s less clear is what’s happening with those allegations, how those allegations are being pursued, how they translate into gross misconduct hearings and sackings,” Cunningham said.HMIC said the problem remained despite recommendations in a 2012 IPCC report on the issue, which appear to have not been acted on.In her speech to the Police Federation conference earlier this year, May said: “We know of officers who develop inappropriate relationships with victims of domestic abuse. They have ignored their professional duty and their moral responsibility, and instead abused their position of power to exploit victims. We do not know the true scale of this, but everyone in this room will know it goes on far more than we might care to admit.”Ex-Lord’s Resistance Army commander is accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity by international criminal courtAn amnesty for gay and bisexual men convicted of consensual sex with people of the same sex has been extended to Northern Ireland. Until Wednesday, the region was excluded from legislation that posthumously pardons men convicted of sexual offences that are no longer illegal and allows the living to apply to have convictions overturned.The legislation did not apply to Northern Ireland because justice powers have been devolved to the Stormont parliament since 2010. But an amendment to the policing and crime bill tabled in the House of Lords by Lord Lexden on Wednesday was passed, and means that hundreds of Northern Irish gay and bisexual men can apply to have their names cleared of such offences.Announcing the measure, Northern Ireland Office minister Kris Hopkins said: “It is hugely important that we pardon people convicted of historical sexual offences who would be innocent of any crime today. While respecting that this is a devolved issue in Northern Ireland, both the secretary of state and I voted in support of equal marriage in England and Wales in 2013 and will continue to advocate LGBT equality issues across the UK.“Today’s amendment is an important milestone for tolerance and equality in Northern Ireland and I welcome it unreservedly.”An applicant from Northern Ireland will now be eligible for a “disregard” if the other person involved consented and was aged 17 or over at the time, and the conduct would not now constitute the offence of sexual activity in a public lavatory. The Northern Ireland Department of Justice must be satisfied that the conduct is no longer criminal. A similar scheme operates for offences in England and Wales.The legislation has been nicknamed Turing’s law, after the Bletchley Park codebreaker and father of modern computing, Alan Turing, who killed himself in 1954 after being convicted of gross indecency with a 19-year-old man in 1952. The British government only pardoned Turing for his conviction in 2013.The amendment is different from the “Turing law” proposed by John Nicolson of the SNP, which would have given an automatic pardon to men convicted under the obsolete laws relating to gross indecency with other men. It was obstructed in October by a justice minister, Sam Gyimah, who ensured the bill could not go forward because he spoke for so long that it ran out of time.However, the Scottish parliament is bringing forward a Scottish “Turing law” to automatically pardon gay and bisexual men convicted of sexual offences that are no longer criminal.Northern Ireland is still the main battleground in the UK in the struggle for gay rights. It remains the only region where gay marriage is not recognised in law, mainly due to the opposition of the Democratic Unionist party in the Northern Ireland Assembly.The formal consent of the Stormont assembly would be required before Brexit because the process would “drive a wedge” between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic, the supreme court has been told.On the third day of the politically sensitive hearing, legal consensus over the UK’s unwritten constitution began to fray as lawyers from Belfast and Edinburgh argued that even parliament on its own cannot trigger article 50 of the treaty on European Union.Submissions by Northern Ireland QCs and Scotland’s lord advocate introduced an extra dimension of political and legal complexity into Theresa May’s attempt to take the UK out of the EU. If successful, they would force the government to obtain the support not only of MPs and peers at Westminster but also the approval of the devolved legislatures.So far most of the dispute inside the packed, neo-Tudor courtroom has focused on whether the government or parliament has legitimate authority to trigger Brexit by giving formal notice to Brussels under article 50 of the UK’s intention to depart. Because of the urgency and significance of the constitutional issues, for the first time 11 justices are sitting together on the supreme court bench to hear the case.There was passing reference in court to the House of Commons debate on Brexit held on Wednesday, but Lord Pannick QC, who represents the lead claimant, Gina Miller, told the justices: “Only an act of parliament can lawfully confer power on the [government] to give notification under article 50. The law is not altered by a motion in parliament. A motion in parliament cannot effect the legal issue in this case.” The government’s QC, James Eadie, has already indicated that any bill put before parliament would only contain a “one-line” statement.David Scoffield QC, who represents politicians and civil rights groups across Northern Ireland’s divided community, told the court that leaving the EU would involve “driving a wedge” between the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland.He agreed with arguments presented by other claimants that ministers could not trigger Brexit on the basis of residual prerogative powers and that parliamentary authority would be required. The government’s assertion of its powers “are cavalier – with both a large ‘C’ and a small ‘c’,” Scoffield said, referring back to the English civil war and 17th century battles between parliament and the crown.But he then went on to argue that the Good Friday agreement and the 1998 legislative settlement of the Troubles had created additional rights for the people of Northern Ireland, many aspects of which, like the north-south ministerial council, stipulated close cooperation within the EU between governments in Belfast and Dublin.“The agreement expressly said that the UK and Ireland would develop close cooperation as partners operating within the EU,” Scoffield said. “It required the implementation of EU programmes on an all-Ireland and cross-border basis.”Numerous bodies have a “clear operational remit” to work together across the island. “The [Good Friday] agreement makes it clear that the elements hang together and are interlocking,” Scoffield added. Even control over international relationships with the Irish Republic has been transferred to the Northern Ireland assembly.Ronan Lavery QC – who represents Raymond McCord, a campaigner for victims’ rights in Northern Ireland whose son was killed by loyalist paramilitaries – went further, telling the supreme court that Good Friday agreement transferred sovereignty out of parliament’s hands.“It would be unconstitutional for the UK to withdraw from the EU without the consent of the people of Northern Ireland,” Lavery said. “Being part of the EU was part of the [1998] constitutional settlement. There has been a transfer of sovereignty under the Good Friday agreement and the Northern Ireland Act. The people of Northern Ireland now have sovereignty over any constitutional change rather than parliament. The notion that parliament is supreme or has primacy has gone.”Triggering article 50 without the agreement of the Stormont assembly, Lavery said, undermines the principle of “consent and self-determination” expressed by the Northern Ireland Act.James Wolffe QC, Scotland’s lord advocate, who represents the views of the SNP government, referred to the Sewel convention, which says that if Westminster is introducing legislation on issues that have been devolved it “normally” has to seek the consent of the devolved assemblies in Edinburgh, Belfast and Cardiff.“I do not assert that the Scottish parliament has a veto on withdrawal from the EU,” Wolffe told the judges, “but the question of whether the Scottish parliament consents is a matter of constitutional significance.” The Sewel convention, he said, “entitles these legislatures to have a voice in the decision”.Earlier Dominic Chambers QC, who represents Deir Dos Santos, the second main claimant, told the court that if Theresa May triggered Brexit without proper parliamentary approval she would be acting “unlawfully”.“Parliament is supreme,” Chambers said. “No person or body can override or nullify legislation. These EU law rights [acquired through the 1972 European Communities Act] are enshrined in parliamentary legislation.“By triggering article 50 these statutory rights will be nullified and overridden. The absence of parliamentary authorisation for the executive to override primary legislation ... will be contrary to the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty and therefore it will be acting unlawfully.”Chambers said that the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty was “forged on the battlefields of the 17th century in the [English civil war] between crown and parliament”.During the hearing, Lord Sumption’s ties have drawn pointed comments from those watching online. On Wednesday, he sported a colourful 2012 Olympic Team GB tie. On another day Sumption had what appeared to be a piano keyboard design dangling from his neck. Was the Olympic tie a subliminal message to reassure patriotic readers or a gesture of support for the master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton, one of the three high court judges condemned by the Daily Mail as “enemies of the people”? Etherton was an Olympic fencer.Cicero would have seen a funny thing on the way to the forum this week. The issue before the highest court in the land was a fine nuance of constitutional law. The judge in charge, Lord Neuberger, was telling a howling mob to stop shouting over what he insisted was a boring legal decision. His judges would decide it themselves, boringly. Everyone go home.To the mob it was not boring at all. It was raw politics. Cicero would have pointed out to his scribe, Tiro, that all the Brexiters were on one side of the case and all the remainers on the other. This is purely a matter of law? Pull the other one, Tiro, it’s got Capitoline bells on it.The joy of an unwritten constitution is that everyone can claim to be its custodian. That includes journalists, scholars, soldiers and, in pride of place, judges. As for the last of these, it has long suited the British establishment to keep them aloof from the boggy no-man’s-land between the crown (government) and parliament (the people). That way everyone can chip in, and chop off King Charles I’s head if things get out of hand. The one thing borne in every Briton from birth is that parliament, not any judge, is absolute boss.Hence this week’s theatrical fun and games at the supreme court over Brexit. Theresa May’s case is that she is “triggering” article 50 because the public told her to do so back in June. In 2015 parliament had specifically asked the electorate for a yes-or-no vote on Europe. No one then suggested Brexit would not mean Brexit. It was clearly understood that no meant leave. For parliament to call a referendum was for parliament to will its implementation.Speaking for the government on Monday, Jeremy Wright QC pleaded that the custom and practice of treaties was for governments to negotiate and then seek parliamentary ratification. It happens all the time, as with those at Lisbon and Maastricht.The reason is that treaties are tricky things. Their negotiation cannot be open to ongoing scrutiny or serial ratification. All the referendum did was start the process. It seems possible that a European court or other court could bolster this case by allowing that article 50 is revocable – indeed any ratification process would imply that. So what’s the big problem?The government’s opponents argue that a decision to withdraw from the EU is a decision to change a range of domestic laws. Commencing that process should require parliamentary authorisation, not a mere plebiscite. The 1972 European Communities Act is not just about cod-fish quotas or climate change targets. It is about myriad laws that have been enacted since joining Europe. Article 50 would formally embark on a road to rescind them. Any move down that path – revocable or not – should be legally “authorised”, they argue, by act of parliament, even just a one-liner.The remain lawyer, Lord Pannick, today argued that ministers do not have unlimited prerogative power in interpreting the will of the parliament. Parliament ordered a referendum, but it was for parliament then to decide what to do with the outcome. At present there is no law authorising the government to take Britain out of the EU, just various political statements around the time of the referendum. For May to interpret this as sufficient to dismantle the totality of powers in the 1972 act was going too far.This is an argument over “going too far”. Pannick’s argument will of course convince the remainers, as it delays the path to Brexit. It will seem mere nitpicking to leavers. His strongest point is that ministers specifically did not amend the 2015 EU referendum bill to make the vote legally binding. But for myself I cannot see what real difference would be made now by a one-line act “authorising” the referendum.We know that the country is deeply split on Brexit. Any leader would be wise to proceed with care and consultation, and that includes with parliament. May would clearly have been wise to guard her flank after the referendum and go straight to the Commons for a vote of confidence on triggering article 50. She would have been wise to promise updates to a trusty and confidential Commons committee. She would have been wise to have conceded, earlier than now, some sight of negotiating objectives, however vague. And she would have been wise to have under her belt a one-clause act of parliament.But to say that the prime minister has played close to the wind of constitutional propriety is not to say she has acted illegally. In the supreme court on Monday, Neuberger made an elegant plea to respect his judges’ impartiality. But he was entering a snake pit. Legal judgments about the utility of one-clause bills are dancing on the head of a pin. If May is found to have been in the wrong, it will be a trivial sin, merely detracting from the many more serious tactical errors she has made so far.Much worse is that it will be howled out of court by an outraged tribe of leavers. They will be convinced, with some justice, that they are up against a London mafia of bad-loser judges, politicians and journalists, out to use every trick in the book to cheat the public of its decision. In this suspicion they would be correct.All that should matter is how best to play out the fact of Brexit to the nation’s advantage. I can accept the wisdom – and legal rigour – of a one-clause act, authorising the government to obey the will of the people as it is already doing, but this borders on the nerdish. It is an argument more suited to a politics seminar than a supreme court.What the judges should do instead is turn the case back on parliament. It rightly claims sovereignty. It can face down any government. It can demand the referendum be ignored and article 50 not be invoked. It can pass any motion and change any law. The trouble is it has lost such guts.MPs are too spineless to act beyond the realm of the executive. When supposedly upset, they now want judges to do their work for them, to get them off the hook of badly drafted laws. The judges should tell the MPs they caused this mess. They should get themselves out of it. Case dismissed, not our problem.Prosecutors at The Hague war crimes tribunal have called for a life sentence to be imposed on the Bosnian Serb military commander, Ratko Mladić, for genocide and crimes against humanity committed by his forces in the 1992-95 Bosnian war.Any lesser penalty would be “an insult to the victims, living and dead, and an affront to justice” said Alan Tieger, closing the prosecution’s case on Wednesday at the end of a trial that has taken more than four and a half years at the international criminal tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY).Mladić, now aged 74, listened to the prosecutors’ closing arguments impassively, watching as they showed videos of him from the war, striding through captured towns, issuing orders to his soldiers.He was a senior officer in the Yugoslav army in 1991 when the socialist federation fell apart. He commanded Bosnian Serb forces that cut the country in two when Bosnia declared its independence the next year and remained in command through the more than three years of war, in which 100,000 people died.Mladić is accused of war crimes, crimes against humanity and two counts of genocide. One is for the siege of Sarajevo, where his troops ringed the city for 46 months, the longest siege in modern history, subjecting its residents to relentless shelling and sniping.“The time has come for Ratko Mladić to be held accountable for each of his victims and all the communities he destroyed,” Tieger said. “Nobody can even imagine the depth of suffering for which Mladić is responsible,” he added.In their three-day closing statement, prosecutors played a recording of an intercepted radio conversation in May 1992 with one of his officers, in which Mladić ordered artillery fire on two Sarajevo districts “because not many Serbs live there”.“Let’s drive them out of their minds, so they cannot sleep,” he is heard saying.One of the prosecution lawyers, Adam Weber, told the tribunal that Mladić’s “personal approval … was necessary” for Serb forces to shell the city using a specially modified bomb that was hurled into central Sarajevo in the later stages of the war.The second genocide count was for the slaughter of more than 7,000 Muslim men and boys from the town of Srebrenica. Most of them were taken away in buses after the supposedly UN-protected enclave fell to Mladić’s troops, lined up and shot, with their bodies dumped in mass graves.“There’s too much pain, there’s too much for any of us to truly comprehend the nature and scope of the shared misery of the women and survivors of the Srebrenica community,” said Peter McCloskey, a prosecution lawyer. “We can, however, strike back, as mandated by the security council with the creation of this tribunal to expose the horrific crimes of this war and try those most responsible for them.”McCloskey added: “We have identified the key men responsible for it. We have Mladić in the dock answering for his crimes.”Mladić has pleaded innocent to the charges and his defence counsel will make its closing statements between 9 and 13 December. A verdict is expected next year.The Mladić trial is one of the last cases to be heard by the ICTY, which was set up in 1993. The Bosnian Serb political leader, Radovan Karadžić, is to appeal his 40-year sentence, which was issued by the court in March this year. The failure to impose life imprisonment, despite the fact that Karadžić was found guilty of genocide for the Srebrenica massacre, sparked fury among Bosnian survivors.Refik Hodzic, a survivor from Prijedor, and now communications director for the International Centre for Transitional Justice, said the ICTY trials had not succeeded in preventing a wave of revisionism and denial in the Serb-controlled half of Bosnia, where some of the convicted war criminals are hailed as heroes.The proceedings in The Hague, he said, “presented the reality of the roles played by Mladic and other cogs in that machine, which has undertaken this dirty work. ““One could clearly see from the evidence presented that Mladić, Karadžić and others from the Serb leadership of the time were not mythical characters – neither monsters, as the Bosniak victim narrative paints them, nor heroes and “fathers of the nation” as they are presented by the dominant Serb politic – but banal, self-centred opportunists drunk on the unchecked power to command lives and deaths of hundreds of thousands of people.”With Theresa May off in Bahrain painting her Turner prize-losing Brexit red, white and blue, the short straw of standing in for her at prime minister’s questions fell to the leader of the house. It was David Lidington’s bad luck to have found himself up against a forensic Emily Thornberry rather than the haphazard Jeremy Corbyn; it was his misjudgment to come to the house almost totally unprepared.The shadow foreign secretary doesn’t normally cover herself in glory at the dispatch box, often managing to antagonise as many in her own party as she does on the government benches. But for her promotion to PMQs, she had come unusually well-primed. Her plan was nothing less than Lidington’s assassination.Could the leader of the house give a simple answer to a simple question? Was Britain planning to stay in the customs union? Yes or no? Lidington appeared startled. Whatever instructions the prime minister had left him on her Post-it note, it hadn’t included this. He waved his arms around theatrically, as if hoping to drag up an answer with a little method thinking. Nothing. Nada. Customs union was well above his pay grade, but he was sure the government had a great plan.Thornberry pressed him a little harder. Did he remember saying back in February that leaving the customs union would be a total disaster? “Does the minister still agree with himself?” she inquired, twisting the stiletto. The look of panic that crossed Lidington’s face suggested he remembered it only too well.“Um, er,” he mumbled. “Things have changed a lot since then.” Certainly they had for Lidington, who was now entering a possible career-ending parallel universe. Someone passed him a note, which he eagerly opened. “The customs union is not a binary issue. There’s at least four possible outcomes.” He had no idea whether this was true, no idea of what it meant, but it was all he had to offer. The next time Theresa went away, she could get someone else to do her dirty work; up in the gallery, the prime minister’s advisers were having much the same thought.Customs union was also on the agenda as part of the opposition day Brexit debate. Faced with the certainty of being defeated, the government had quickly tabled an amendment promising to publish some kind of plan before triggering article 50 in March next year, so the shadow Brexit secretary, Keir Starmer, tried to pin down the parameters of what might be in the plan. Could the government offer any clue about what sort of Brexit it had in mind?“No plan survives engagement with the enemy,” Crispin Blunt snapped. Branding the EU as the enemy before negotiations have even started may not be the best way of securing the best possible deal.David Davis, the Brexit secretary, tried to be a little more accommodating. He had been falling over himself in the past few months to let parliament know what the government plans. It was just that no one had been listening to him. His plans were to get the best possible deal for the country once someone had got round to working out what the best possible deal was. Whatever the government managed to come up with would de facto turn out to be the best possible deal.When Conservative Dominic Grieve pointed out that if the supreme court upheld the divisional court’s ruling on parliamentary involvement in article 50, then the government would be obliged to introduce primary legislation, Davis grandly announced: “We will obey the rule of law.” It says something for post-truth politics in 2016 that Davis managed to make that sound like a concession.What Davis didn’t say was what the plan the government would present to the Commons would look like. Would it be a few gentle hints written on the back of an envelope? He couldn’t say for certain. Though probably it would be nothing that detailed.Thereafter the debate rather fell apart. The Eurosceptics, once the strongest defenders of parliamentary sovereignty, were now adamant that Brexit was far too important to be left to MPs and insisted that anyone who said otherwise was just trying to thwart the will of the people. As if they had a hotline to what that will was. The remainers were equally certain that allowing the government to stumble into any old Brexit within an arbitrary timeframe was asking for trouble.“Would anyone in this house sign up to an agreement without knowing the details?” Starmer asked. “If so, please put your hand in the air.”Jacob Rees-Mogg put his hand up. There’s always one.The government’s appeal against a decision granting parliament a vote on article 50 moved to the supreme court this week. And with a decision due in January, the March deadline for triggering Brexit talks is moving ever-closer.The EU’s chief negotiator Michel Barnier used a speech to set out the EU’s basic starting position and to declare that the UK would not be allowed to “cherry-pick” what it wants from the single market.We hear from the former attorney general Dominic Grieve, an ardently pro-EU Conservative MP who runs through the history of the royal prerogative.The supreme court also heard how claims from the devolved parliaments to be involved in triggering article 50. This week the SNP has reiterated warnings that proceeding without the consent of the SNP-dominated Scottish parliament could spark a constitutional crisis. We hear from the party’s Brexit spokesman Stephen Gethins.Plus: following Dame Louise Casey’s major review of integration in the UK, we hear from Labour MP Chuka Umunna on the policy implications of her recommendations. And joining Anushka Asthana in the studio to discuss the report are Sunder Katwala of the thinktank British Future, Phoebe Griffith from the IPPR and Shaista Gohir of the Muslim Women’s Network.Human rights activists in Egypt have reacted angrily to the arrest of prominent women’s rights advocate Azza Soliman, saying it marked a “chilling escalation” of pressure on civil society organisations.Soliman, the founder of the Centre for Egyptian Women’s Legal Assistance (CEWLA), is one of a number of activists, lawyers and journalists to have been prevented from leaving Egypt in the past month.The rights lawyer and leading feminist said last week that she had been turned back on 19 November at Cairo airport. Soon after, Soliman discovered that her personal assets and those of her group had been frozen. On Wednesday, her foundation and a security source said she had been detained by police.“The investigative judge has issued an arrest warrant against Azza Soliman,” CEWLA tweeted, adding that security forces had gone to Soliman’s house and taken her away to a Cairo police station.There was no immediate comment from the interior ministry and it was not clear what charges, if any, Soliman was facing.But the detention sparked immediate condemnation from Egyptian human rights activists, who say they are being subjected to a severe government clampdown targeting organisations accused of fomenting unrest during the 2011 uprising that ended Hosni Mubarak’s 30-year rule.Several non-governmental organisations (NGOs), most involved in rights work, are embroiled in a long-running investigation, accused of receiving foreign funds to sow chaos. An Egyptian rights lawyer said Soliman’s arrest warrant had been issued by the judge who is presiding over that case.“Why would they arrest her from her house?” asked Dalia Abdel-Hamid, a fellow women’s rights activist and researcher at the Cairo-based Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights.“It’s so humiliating, not just for her but for all civil society and human rights activists.”Abdel-Hamid said that in other arrests in connection with Egypt’s “foreign funding case” – the targeting of civil society organisations accused by the state of receiving “illegal” foreign funding – the accused were not taken from their homes.“This is an aggressive step up from what has happened previously,” she added. “We don’t know what this will mean or what the repercussions of this will be.”Soliman previously stood trial after witnessing the murder of socialist protester Shaimaa al-Sabbagh by Egyptian police in January 2015. She and 16 others were later acquitted.Mohamed Lotfy, of the Egyptian Commission for Rights and Freedoms, said Soliman’s arrest represented “a chilling escalation against independent civil society in Egypt”.“Azza’s arrest unmasks the government’s animosity not just to human rights defenders in general, but also to the independent Egyptian feminist movement,” he said.Najia Bounaim, deputy campaigns director at Amnesty International’s Tunis office, said the arrest was “the latest chilling example of the Egyptian authorities’ systematic persecution of independent human rights defenders.”“We believe she has been arrested for her legitimate human rights work and must be released immediately and unconditionally,” she said. “Her arrest marks an escalation in the use of a string of repressive tactics designed to intimidate her and other critical voices into silence.“There is a real risk that her arrest could signal an accelerating crackdown with many other human rights defenders subject to the same inquiry facing the risk of imminent arrest.”In September, a court froze the assets of five prominent human rights activists and three NGOs, paving the way for criminal proceedings that could lead to life sentences.NGOs say they have felt exposed since late 2011, when authorities raided 17 pro-democracy and rights groups. In 2013, a court ordered the closure of several foreign groups, including the US-based Freedom House, and gave jail sentences to 43 NGO staff including 15 Americans who fled.A case against dozens of Egyptian NGOs and lawyers was never closed but remained largely dormant until this year.In November, parliament passed a law to regulate NGOs, which human rights groups say in effect bans their work and makes it harder for development groups and charities to operate.The bill bans domestic and foreign groups from engaging in political activities or anything that harms national security, public order, public morals or public health – a means, critics say, to stifle dissent.Harking back to the English civil war, David Scoffield QC suggests that the UK government’s “contention of its powers are, with respect, cavalier - perhaps in this respect with both a large ‘C’ and a small ‘c’.Senior Tory MPs have begun pushing for a list of regulations affecting companies to tear up after Brexit, even though Theresa May has promised to carry over all EU law into British law.Two former cabinet ministers, John Whittingdale and Michael Gove, suggested to the CBI business group on Wednesday that companies should start drawing up a list of regulations they want to see abolished or reformed.The two leave campaigners raised the prospect of EU laws being scrapped after the passage of May’s great repeal bill carrying over existing legislation, as they cross-examined witnesses at a session of the Commons committee on exiting the EU.Gove highlighted a government-commissioned report by Marc Bolland, the former chief executive of Marks & Spencer, which ran through a list of EU employment protections it would like to see withdrawn or changed including pregnant worker proposals, the agency workers directive, the acquired rights directive and the working time directive.Questioning Carolyn Fairbairn, the director general of the CBI, he asked her: “Would you be able to write back to the committee with a view that your members have on those directives and the current assessment for the applicability or scope for reform of those directives?”John Whittingdale, the former culture secretary, also asked Fairburn: “To what extent has the CBI examined the opportunities which may exist to reduce the burden on business and are you working on an analysis to present to government for potential repeal or reduction?”He said he understood the concerns of the Trade Unions Congress (TUC) that it will want to preserve protections for workers deriving from the EU but many pieces of red tape were burdensome that had nothing to do with employment.John Longworth, the former chair of the British Chamber of Commerce, who campaigned to leave, told the committee that he thought the “opportunities for deregulation are legion”.“Some of it will be to do with employment rights. Some of it will be to do with the fact that people might not be allowed to do overtime that they wish to do,” he said, citing lorry drivers as an example.“But the fact of the matter is also that there is a lot of regulation that is nothing to do with employment rights that causes cost to business.” One example he mentioned was the EU ergonomics directive, which he said made small businesses keep a ledger of checks of the positioning of computer screens and chairs. He said the UK could “easily” remove 10% of EU regulations without harming workers’ rights, citing examples such as labelling rules requiring smoked salmon packets to be marked “may contain fish” and protections for newts, which are rare on the continent but common in Britain. However, Fairbairn cautioned MPs against focusing on “silly” anecdotal stories about overregulation, which she said were of less concern to her members than the threat of losing access to European markets.Frances O’Grady, the general secretary of the TUC, warned the committee that a bonfire of regulations would expose British workers to a “race to the bottom” on employment conditions and health and safety protections, making the UK the “bargain basement capital of Europe”.A full act of parliament – rather than merely a motion – would be required to give ministers authorisation to trigger Brexit, the supreme court has been told.Concluding his arguments to the court, Lord Pannick QC, who represents the lead claimant, Gina Miller, said legislation by both houses of parliament would be needed before the government could formally give notification of the UK’s intention to leave the European Union.“Only an act of parliament can lawfully confer power on the [government] to give notification under article 50 [of the treaty on European Union],” Pannick said. “The law is not altered by a motion in parliament. A motion in parliament cannot effect the legal issue in this case.”On Tuesday the government’s QC, James Eadie, had indicated that any bill put before parliament would only contain a “one-line” statement.Pannick ran into stronger judicial resistance on Wednesday when he began to assess the legal significance of the 2015 referendum legislation in terms of whether it gave the government new powers.“It would be a bit surprising if the referendum act and the referendum had no effect in law,” Lord Neuberger, the president of the supreme court, suggested. The act may have been enough for the government to say it had ceded power to the people, he added.But Pannick replied: “The 2015 act is entirely neutral on the issue before this court: whether or not a minister has the power to notify [Brussels that the UK intends to leave the EU].”Dominic Chambers QC, who represents Deir Dos Santos, the second main claimant, told the court’s 11 justices that if Theresa May triggered Brexit without proper parliamentary approval she would be acting “unlawfully”.“Parliament is supreme,” Chambers said. “No person or body can override or nullify legislation. These EU law rights [acquired through the 1972 European Communities Act] are enshrined in parliamentary legislation.“By triggering article 50 these statutory rights will be nullified and overridden. The absence of parliamentary authorisation for the executive to override primary legislation ... will be contrary to the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty and therefore it will be acting unlawfully.”Chambers said that the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty was “forged on the battlefields of the 17th century in the [English civil war] between crown and parliament”.Parliament’s victory and sovereignty was finally enacted in the bill of rights which, Chambers reminded the justices, declared that “suspension of [parliamentary] powers without authority is illegal”.A Church of England hospital chaplain has lost his claim that he was discriminated against when his licence to work was withdrawn after he married his same-sex partner, in a case that gay rights campaigners hoped would force the church to change its stance.Jeremy Pemberton was appealing against an earlier ruling that backed the church’s legal right to enforce its position that gay clergy are forbidden from marrying their partners.The employment appeal tribunal judge Jennifer Eady said in her ruling that the state could not impose same-sex marriage on the church.According to the ruling, Pemberton “was aware his marriage would be seen in conflict with the teachings of the church (even if he did not accept the characterisation of those teachings as doctrine) and he would thus be viewed as not in ‘good standing’, as would be understood within the Church of England”.It added that parliament had permitted a specific exemption to the church on discrimination claims of this nature.In a statement after Wednesday’s decision, Pemberton said his case – brought against the bishop of Southwell and Nottingham, Richard Inwood – had raised “novel and complex issues of law”, and he may take it to the court of appeal.He added: “The result is, obviously, not the one my husband and I had hoped for. I appreciate that this case was a source of hope for many people and I am grateful that the judge has recognised its significance and indicated that its importance warrants permission to appeal to the court of appeal.“I am now going to take some time to consider the lengthy judgment with my husband, and we will decide on the best way forward, having taken advice from my lawyers.”A spokesperson for the diocese of Southwell and Nottingham said: “Churches across the diocese continue to offer a generous welcome to people from all backgrounds and we remain fully engaged in the church’s exploration of questions relating to human sexuality.“The Church of England supports gay men and women who serve as clergy in its parishes, dioceses and institutions. It has no truck with homophobia and supports clergy who are in civil partnerships, as set out in the house of bishops’ guidelines in 2006.”Pemberton was the first C of E clergy member to enter into a same-sex marriage when he married his partner, Laurence Cunnington, in April 2014 in defiance of a church ban on same-sex weddings for clergy. Priests are permitted to enter into civil partnerships but are required to remain celibate.The case, under the 2010 Equality Act, was seen as significant as an examination of the validity of C of E doctrine, a test of equality legislation in relation to that doctrine, and because it raised the issue of whether the church could legitimately veto appointments by other bodies – in this instance, the NHS.After Pemberton’s wedding, Inwood revoked his permission to officiate, which prevented the chaplain from taking up a job at King’s Mill hospital in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, even though he was to be employed by the NHS.In November 2015 Inwood argued that, according to C of E doctrine, marriage could only be between a man and a woman. The tribunal ruling said there was “no doubt whatsoever that the present doctrine of the church is clear”.The Nottingham tribunal ruled that “the claimant would never have been in this position had he not defied the doctrine of the church. The claimant knowingly entered into that marriage and knew what the potential consequences could be for him …“In getting married to his partner, he was flying in the face of the clear restating of doctrine in relation to same-sex marriage.”The church has been riven by the issue of sexuality for at least two decades. A two-year consultation of clergy, congregations and members of the general synod – the church’s ruling body – was completed in the summer. Next week the house of bishops will consider next steps before the next meeting of the synod in February.Justin Welby, the archbishop of Canterbury, has sought to hold together the global Anglican communion on this issue in a conflict between the liberal US church, which has backed same-sex marriage, and conservatives – principally from African countries – who are deeply opposed.Welby apologised in January to lesbian, gay and transgender members of the church for the hurt caused to them. He is believed to have shifted his personal stance on the issue since becoming C of E leader almost four years ago.Since losing his licence to officiate, Pemberton has found work as a civil celebrant, conducting weddings, funerals and naming ceremonies.Pemberton’s appeal was heard at the employment appeals tribunal in September, with judgment handed down on Wednesday.Labour finally flexed its muscles over Brexit on Tuesday, winning a modest concession from the government over Theresa May’s “plan”. But by signing up for No 10’s self-imposed timetable for triggering article 50, the shadow Brexit secretary, Keir Starmer, also underlined how boxed in the opposition is.Labour had tabled a motion for an opposition day debate on Wednesday, calling on the government to publish its plan for Brexit before launching the two-year EU exit process.Facing a backbench rebellion spearheaded by Anna Soubry, the government caved in and said it would support the motion – but only if MPs accepted the end-March deadline for invoking article 50.The Labour frontbench felt it had little choice but to accept that deal – but by Wednesday morning, some backbenchers were already sniping about Starmer’s tactics.They resent that if they back the motion on Wednesday, they feel their hands will be tied if legislation to trigger article 50 comes to the Commons in the new year.Labour’s room for manoeuvre is doubly limited. First, the party has repeatedly made clear that it does not want to “block Brexit”. That is because the verdict in June’s referendum was clear, but also because many of Labour’s traditional heartland areas registered a strong vote to leave.So while the party’s official position during the referendum campaign was to remain in the EU (though the recriminations continue about whether Jeremy Corbyn campaigned hard enough), it makes little sense to hold out against Brexit altogether.The Liberal Democrats, the most pro-EU party, were energised by the leave vote and can campaign enthusiastically against Brexit, speaking for anguished remainers.But if Labour sought to put itself in the same territory it would risk alienating many of its traditional voters and driving a coach and horses through its already fragile electoral coalition, which involves uniting, as Andy Burnham recently said, “Hampstead and Hull”.Secondly, even the Labour frontbench, most of whom were handpicked by Corbyn, are far from united on what sort of Brexit they would like to achieve. There is a broad-brush agreement to put safeguarding the economy before taming immigration, which Starmer, the shadow business secretary Clive Lewis and the shadow chancellor John McDonnell have all stated publicly.Starmer has made clear he takes that to mean continued membership of the customs union and the EU single market, allowing goods to pass freely across borders.But Corbyn has repeatedly stressed the shortcomings of the single market – not the unfettered immigration but the rules to prevent governments from backing struggling companies through state aid. He also criticised the enforcement of privatisation and liberalisation through trade deals such as the much-loathed Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership.McDonnell has also stressed the “enormous opportunities” presented by Brexit, suggesting he would have little problem with the end of March timetable.Some backbenchers believe Labour should have been more robust and rejected the government’s amendment on Tuesday, in effect reserving the right to throw sand in the wheels of any article 50 legislation next year (assuming the government loses the supreme court case). Chris Leslie, Ben Bradshaw, Neil Coyle and David Lammy have all said they will not support the motion.They believe threatening to slow down the legislation unless the government fulfils certain demands is one of the few weapons at remainers’ disposal to secure the best Brexit possible. And they are irked that the government has merely committed itself to producing a Brexit plan – not a white paper or another, more formal, document.But rejecting the amendment might be hard to reconcile with the party’s recent pronouncements about not “frustrating” Brexit, with the enthusiasm of a good proportion of its traditional voters for cracking on with leaving, and indeed with Corbyn and McDonnell’s scepticism about the benefits of the EU.In truth, Labour is walking an all but impossible tightrope and risks shedding voters in more than one direction – to Tim Farron’s wholehearted remainers on one side and Paul Nuttall’s reinvigorated Ukip on the other. Starmer clearly believes that in those circumstances, small victories are the only kind achievable.Malta has become the first country in Europe to ban gay conversion therapy after the parliament in Valetta unanimously approved a bill outlawing attempts to “cure” homosexuals of their sexuality.Under the new Affirmation of Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Gender Expression Act, anyone found guilty of trying to “change, repress or eliminate a person’s sexual orientation, gender identity and/or gender expression” will face fines or a jail sentence.Practising medical professionals who prescribe “gay cure” therapies could face fines of up to €10,000 (£8510) and a jail term of up to a year, with lesser fines of €1,000 to €5,000 and shorter sentences available to judges in other cases, Malta Today reported.The Mediterranean island nation has launched a number of progressive social reforms since its Labour government was elected in 2013, and has twice been named the European country that best respects the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex people by the advocacy group ILGA-Europe.The new law also decrees that “no sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression constitutes a disorder, disease or shortcoming of any sort”, and lowers to 16 the age at which people can request a change in gender without their parents’ approval.Supporters of gay conversion therapy argue it uses common psychological or counselling techniques to help people voluntarily change their sexual orientation, but the practice is widely condemned.In Britain, the NHS, Royal College of Psychiatrists and all leading counselling and psychotherapy bodies have signed a joint statement describing it as unethical, unscientific and potentially dangerous.According to the LGBT rights group Stonewall, a 2009 survey of 1,300 mental health professionals in the UK found that more than 200 had offered some form of conversion therapy to patients referred to them by GPs and NHS practices.In the US, where the practice is banned on minors in several states, the American Psychiatric Association has said it opposes any treatment “based on the assumption that homosexuality per se is a mental disorder or … that a patient should change his/her homosexual orientation”.Professional bodies representing Malta’s psychologists, psychiatrists, family therapists and counsellors welcomed the bill barring what they called an “inhumane” practice, saying in a joint statement that they were “very proud to have played an integral part” in drafting it. Gay conversion therapy “not only rejects a group of individuals on the basis of unfounded prejudice and lack of tolerance for diversity, but also impinges on the international recognition of LGBTIQ rights”, the associations added.“As a body we promote respect and equality for all persons, and are determined to continue working towards ensuring our clients can enjoy as safe a therapeutic experience as they deserve,” their statement said.Vittorio Storaro, the Oscar-winning cinematographer who supervised the filming of the “butter” scene in Last Tango in Paris, has stoutly defended the film’s director Bernardo Bertolucci, saying “nothing happened” during the shoot.Speaking to the Hollywood Reporter, Storaro said that the recent storm over the scene – which showed Marlon Brando’s character Paul anally raping Maria Schneider’s Jeanne – was based on claims that are “not true at all”.Storaro said: “I was there. We were doing a movie. You don’t do it for real. I was there with two cameras and nothing happened. … Nobody was raping anybody.“I think the journalists are making an issue that is not really an issue. I read that there was a kind of violence made on her but that’s not true. That’s not true at all.”Acknowledging that the controversy had arisen from Bertolucci’s suggestion that he had not mentioned the use of butter “as a lubricant” to Schneider before shooting the scene, Storaro said: “Probably Bernardo felt that maybe he didn’t explain it completely to Maria from the beginning and that’s why he felt a little guilty and nothing more than that. What Bernardo said later was he would like to apologise to Maria, only because he probably didn’t explain to her at the beginning what was discussed with Brando. Nothing happened during the shooting.”He added: “[Maria] knew perfectly well what she was doing. She knew pretty well what was happening in every scene. She was an actress and had no problems with this. It was an acting job, not something else.”Storaro, who also worked with Bertolucci on The Conformist and The Last Emperor, said the director would meet with Brando every morning while filming Last Tango to discuss the day’s work because “Brando wanted to add his own opinion”. “Everything was written down, but every morning Bernardo loved to add something … We knew the script and we knew what we wanted to do, but every morning you come up with different ideas.”Describing the shoot as a “fantastic period”, Storaro also said that “like everybody in this wonderful atmosphere, [Schneider] was so sorry that the movie was ending.”In later years, however, Schneider (who was 19 at the time of filming and who died in 2011) recalled a very different experience, describing Bertolucci as “very manipulative” and that she “felt a little raped, both by Marlon and by Bertolucci”.In recent days a string of actors, including Jessica Chastain and Chris Evans, have lined up to condemn Bertolucci’s methods, but the director himself hit back, calling the controversy “ridiculous”.Thousands of stalkers who torment their victims but whom the police do not have enough evidence to charge are to face asbo-style bans, the home secretary will announce on Wednesday.Amber Rudd is to introduce new stalking prevention orders that will give the courts fresh powers to order offenders at an early stage not to go anywhere near someone they have been compulsively pursuing, especially in cases involving strangers.Ministers say that as many as 1.5 million women and 830,000 men are victims of stalkers every year, yet the police recorded only 4,168 stalking offences in the 12 months to June. Even fewer – 1,102 cases – were prosecuted in the courts in 2015-16.The introduction of the new civil stalking protection orders will enable the courts to impose restrictions on suspected stalkers, including staying away from their target, restricting their internet use, attending a rehabilitation programme or seeking treatment for mental health issues.Breaching the conditions will be a criminal offence with a maximum sentence of five years in jail. Introducing the new orders will require legislation that ministers say they will table as soon as possible.The Home Office said the new orders would offer additional protection at an early stage for anyone who has not been in an intimate relationship with their stalker, helping those targeted by strangers, acquaintances or colleagues, as well as professionals such as doctors who may be targeted by patients.“Stranger stalkers” are believed to account for as many as 50% of cases, while those cases involving ex-partners are already covered by domestic violence protection orders. The National Stalking Helpline has responded to 3,550 calls so far this year.Stalkers often delude themselves that they are in a relationship with their victim, causing distress and fear by persistently intruding on their lives through unwanted phone calls, text messages, emails or letters. This can extend in a pattern of behaviour to loitering, following and spying on their victim, ordering goods and services, as well as threats and violence.In one extreme case, a stalker had Googled the name of his victim 40,000 times over the course of a year and had persisted in his attempts to contact his victim despite being handed three restraining orders.However, critics fear that the orders will be used as a substitute for pursuing criminal prosecutions by poorly trained police and prosecutors unable to gather evidence. They also voiced concerns that breaches would not be rigorously enforced.Rudd said: “Stalking can have devastating consequences, and I am determined that we do all we can to protect victims from these prolonged and terrifying campaigns of abuse that can last years, leaving many people too afraid to leave their homes and unable to get on with their lives.“Four years ago this government created specific stalking offences to ensure those responsible face justice. Today I want to go even further and offer protection at the first signs of stalking, stopping offenders in their tracks.”Garry Shewan, Greater Manchester police’s assistant chief constable and the National Police Chiefs’ Council lead for stalking and harassment, said: “We want to stop stalkers in their tracks. In the last year, police have recorded 32% more stalking offences and more perpetrators are now being prosecuted. The launch of stalking protection orders will help us intervene earlier and place controls on perpetrators to prevent their behaviour escalating while the crime is investigated.”But Harry Fletcher, director of Voice4Victims, said the orders were only an interim measure to tide victims over while the police decided whether to press ahead with a prosecution. “The real issue is why there are so few prosecutions so far under the stalkings laws and why it takes so long for the police to secure evidence to prosecute,” he said. There have been just over 2,000 prosecutions since the new law came into effect in 2012.Fletcher said what was needed was proper training for the police and prosecutors and he said the orders might become a substitute for prosecutions.Ex-Lord’s Resistance Army commander is accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity by international criminal courtA former Royal Marine serving a life sentence for murdering a wounded Afghan insurgent faces the “real possibility” of having his conviction quashed following the presentation of new evidence, an independent review has found. The Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) has confirmed it is referring the conviction of Sgt Alexander Blackman, also known as Marine A, to the courts martial appeal court.Blackman was found guilty of murder at a court martial at the military court centre, Bulford, Wiltshire, in 2013. But the presentation of new evidence relating to Blackman’s mental health at the time of the death in Helmand – and the fact that an alternative verdict of unlawful act manslaughter was not available during the trial – means the case will return to the court.The decision marks the latest step in the fight by Blackman’s wife, Claire, to clear her husband’s name. David James Smith, lead CCRC commissioner on the case, said: “We have scrutinised this murder conviction in minute detail and after a thorough investigation we have concluded that there are new issues – principally relating to Mr Blackman’s state of mind at the time of the shooting – which in our view raise a real possibility that an appeal against conviction would now succeed.“On that basis we are sending the case back to the courts martial appeal court so that a fresh appeal can be heard.”Blackman, who was serving with Plymouth-based 42 Commando, quoted Shakespeare as he shot his victim in the chest at close range with a 9mm pistol after the Afghan had been seriously injured in an attack by an Apache helicopter.Footage from another marine’s helmet-mounted camera showed Blackman shooting the Afghan prisoner in the chest with a 9mm pistol. Blackman was then heard telling him: “There you are. Shuffle off this mortal coil, you c***. It’s nothing you wouldn’t do to us.” He then turned to comrades and said: “Obviously this doesn’t go anywhere, fellas. I just broke the Geneva convention.”During the trial, Blackman, of Taunton in Somerset, said he believed the victim was already dead and he was taking out his anger on a corpse. Two other servicemen – known as Marine B and Marine C – were acquitted of murder.Confirmation of the CCRC decision comes after an 11-month investigation into the conviction and sentence. In a statement, the CCRC said new expert evidence had come to light, while an alternative charge was now available.It said: “The Commission has concluded that these issues raise a real possibility that the courts martial appeal court will now quash Mr Blackman’s murder conviction.”It will now be for the court to hear a fresh appeal and to decide the case.Theresa May will say the Iran nuclear deal is “vitally important” in her first major intervention on the issue since the election of Donald Trump, who has said he plans to tear up the agreement secured by the Obama administration.Speaking on Wednesday, the prime minister will tell Gulf leaders in Bahrain that Iran remains a threat to the stability of the Middle East and the UK would not ignore “aggressive” Iranian actions in Syria and Yemen.Addressing the plenary of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in Manama, May will say she is realistic about the threat Iran poses in the Gulf and the wider region, and prepared to “confront state actors whose influence fuels instability”.However, the prime minister will also underline the importance of the 2015 agreement, saying it makes more direct engagement with Iran on issues of concern possible in a “clear-eyed, hard-headed manner”.“We secured a deal that has neutralised the possibility of Iran acquiring nuclear weapons for more than a decade,” she will say. “It has already seen Iran remove 13,000 centrifuges, together with associated infrastructure, and eliminate its stock of 20%-enriched uranium.“That was vitally important for regional security. But we must also work together to push back against Iran’s aggressive regional actions, whether in Lebanon, Iraq, Yemen, Syria or in the Gulf itself.”Trump has threatened to scrap the deal, signed by six major powers including Britain, in which Iran agreed to scale down its nuclear programme in exchange for sanctions relief. US Republicans opposed the deal brokered by the Obama administration and called for sanctions to be increased.In March, Trump told supporters that his number one foreign policy objective was to “dismantle the disastrous deal with Iran”, which he has since called “the worst deal ever negotiated”.May’s comments make it clear to the US president-elect and the Iranian government that the UK would consider itself bound by the deal even if the US withdrew. Britain, along with the other signatories France, Germany, Russia and China, has resumed trade relations with Iran since sanctions were lifted.On Tuesday, Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, said Trump could not unilaterally dismantle the deal. ”Do you think he can rip up the [deal]?” he said. “Do you think we and our nation will let him do that?”The outgoing director of the CIA, John Brennan, has told of disastrous consequences if Trump renounces the agreement, warning that this would be the “height of folly” and any breakdown in relations could lead to a nuclear arms race with other Gulf states.Israel, which opposes the deal, has said the terms do not prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon within the next decade. The Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has said he intends to press Trump to renege on the “bad deal”.May, who is holding bilateral meetings with six Gulf leaders during her two-day visit to Bahrain, will lead a focused session on Iran and regional security issues after the speech.Downing Street said she would highlight key areas of concern, including the al-Quds force of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards acting in Syria to shore up the Assad regime and working with Hezbollah in Lebanon.Although her remarks on Wednesday are likely to be interpreted as a warning to Trump not to pull the US out of the deal, May told reporters she got on well with Trump on a personal level in their two phone calls, saying he was “very easy to talk to”.“He is someone who very much values the relationship he has with the UK,” she said.“Whenever we’ve talked, that’s been one of the key things we’ve talked about; the depth of our special relationship and the fact we want to maintain that and build on it for the future.”On Tuesday, May met the leaders of the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia for bilateral talks lasting roughly 30 minutes each, and dined with all six GCC leaders on Tuesday night. Downing Street sources said talks with the UAE focused on trade and investment.Saudi Arabia’s role in the Yemen conflict was raised with King Salman, with the need for a comprehensive Saudi investigation into human rights abuses emphasised during the meeting, a source said. May will also criticise Iran’s support for Houthi rebels in the conflict in her speech on Wednesday.“The PM said it was very important lessons are learned and acted upon,” the source said, but Downing Street did not call for an independent UN investigation into Saudi forces’ conduct in Yemen.More than 6,800 people have been killed in the country, the majority in Saudi-led airstrikes in support of the Yemeni president, Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi.Downing Street would not confirm whether specific cases of imprisoned or exiled dissidents in the Gulf had been raised during the talks, but she is due to have a working lunch with the king of Bahrain on Wednesday.MPs from the all-party parliamentary group on democracy and human rights in the Gulf wrote to May on Tuesday, asking her to raise the case of Nabeel Rajab, the president of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, who is facing up to 15 years in prison for offences including insulting the state in an article he wrote for the New York Times.“The European parliament, the United Nations and the US state department have all expressly called for his release from prison,” the letter said. “To date, the United Kingdom has not done likewise.”Parliamentary legislation that paved the way for Britain to enter the EU is being treated with contempt by ministers who regard it as less important than the Dangerous Dogs Act, the supreme court has been told.On the second day of a politically sensitive appeal that will decide whether the government or parliament has legitimate authority to trigger Brexit, the lofty neo-Tudor courtroom in Westminster was packed with teams of government officials, lawyers and the public.Lord Pannick QC, opening the argument on behalf of the lead claimant, Gina Miller, dismissed the government’s assertion that it was entitled to use its prerogative powers to deliver notice of the UK’s intention to leave the EU under article 50 of the treaty on European Union as “inherently implausible”.His reply to the government’s submissions came midway through the four-day hearing at the supreme court, where, because of the urgency and significance of the constitutional issues, for the first time 11 justices are sitting together to hear the case.Miller, an investment manager, sat behind Pannick with two bodyguards as he delivered his speech. She has received death threats and abuse from internet trolls alleging she is trying to obstruct Brexit. Miller insists her claim is about ensuring that it is enacted so that parliament can have a proper debate on the process.Pannick, an expert in constitutional law and one of the most highly paid barristers in private practice, emphasised the unique qualities of the 1972 European Communities Act, which prepared the way for Britain to join what was then the European Economic Community.“The courts have repeatedly recognised that the 1972 act has a constitutional status,” Pannick told the justices. “It created a new source of domestic law and granted priority to it. The [government’s] argument if [followed] should mean that the act, far from having a constitutional status, would have a lesser status than that of the Dangerous Dogs Act.”Initiating Brexit would inevitably lead to the repeal of the European Communities Act but to do so required parliament’s authority, Pannick said. Ministers alone could not do it by royal prerogative powers. “It would be … quite extraordinary that the 1972 act could be set at nought by the actions of a minister acting without any parliamentary authority,” he said.The 1972 act was intended to create a constitutional revolution, Pannick said: “It’s inherently implausible that when it’s recognised that there’s a new source of legal rights that it could all be set at nought by prerogative powers.”The European court of justice described the act as as “a new legal order”, Pannick said. “It’s parliament which has created this new legal order,” he went on. “When we joined the EEC what happened was that the 1972 act was brought into force before the treaty of accession was ratified.”It made no sense, “however flexible our constitution is”, he said, “that ministers could take away what parliament had created”.Pannick’s arguments were received with relatively few challenges from the justices. His itinerary through legal precedents included references to an 1892 dispute over lobster fishing factories in Newfoundland in which the government tried but failed to use prerogative powers to enforce an international treaty.He outlined seven reasons why the government’s case should fail, including that the royal prerogative powers were insufficient to nullify the 1972 European Communities Act, which had a constitutional status.Earlier, James Eadie QC, for the government, confirmed that if it lost the supreme court case, Theresa May would present a “one-line act” to parliament seeking its authorisation for triggering Brexit. The act would not provide any further detail or insight into the way the government intended to develop its negotiations with the EU, Eadie said.He ran into criticism from several justices who accused him of confusing them over the significance of the prime minister’s promised great repeal act, which would temporarily preserve European law in UK statutes.Eadie initially agreed that the bill was irrelevant to the issue before the supreme court, but then said it was important in as much as it demonstrated parliament was involved in debating Brexit. “You have given two diametrically opposed answers to the same question,” one of the justices, Lord Sumption, said. “We shall have to work out which one you accept.”The evolving state of the UK’s devolution settlement will come under fresh strain on Wednesday when claimants from Northern Ireland, as well as the Scottish government, will argue that ministers cannot begin the process of departure without consulting the devolved assemblies.Under the Sewel convention, it is claimed, the Westminster government cannot alter the rights of citizens in the devolved nations without parliamentary assent and the assent of the devolved legislatures.Richard Keen, the Westminster government’s advocate general for Scotland, said on Tuesday that triggering article 50 would not damage the existing devolution architecture of the UK.“It’s perfectly clear that the matter of foreign relationships, foreign affairs and our relationship with the EU is not within the competence of the devolved legislatures,” Lord Keen said.The first law of lawyers: there’s no bad situation that can’t get worse. When James Eadie, the barrister representing the government in its supreme court appeal, had gone home the previous night, he had hoped the worst was over. He’d noticed the raised eyebrows of the 11 supreme court justices and endured their critical line of questioning. Surely now, the only way was up.“I think you’ve just given two diametrically opposed answers to the same question in the last five minutes,” observed Lord Sumption. As Eadie, aka the Treasury Devil, had only been back on his feet for less than 20 minutes, this wasn’t the best of starts.“We’ll have to look back through the transcripts and see which one we agree with then,” Lord Carnwath added, not altogether helpfully.“I see,” said Lord Neuberger, trying to be kind. “We had better let you proceed with your argument.“I will try not to give two inconsistent answers in the next five minutes,” Eadie said dolefully. He’d never wanted this appeal and just going through the same points that the divisional court had dismissed last time out was doing nothing for his self-esteem. Trying to make the best of a bad job, wasn’t his usual style.He began to fumble and lose his way. When he reached the point of double taxation in his submissions, he just decided to give up the unequal. The justices might understand the law but he didn’t and he’d only end up giving more wrong answers. “Because of time,” he said, “I’ll pass on this.” It wasn’t quite the slam dunk finale he’d been hoping for.Next up was Lord Keen for the Scots. Or rather not for the Scots. Scotland’s advocate general gives every impression of believing devolution has only ever been a chimera and that the Westminster parliament pulls all the strings. “I’m going through this at the rate of knots,” he said, breathless in a way that only a tortoise could ever know. Glaciers move more quickly than Lord Keen. There seems to be a significant timelapse between him having a thought and it getting uttered.Sensing that the appeal might be running away from the government, the attorney general for Northern Ireland, John Larkin, went for the nuclear option. He dropped his bundles, and lost his place to deliver one of the more hapless performances ever witnessed by the supreme court. He rushed straight out of court as soon as his 45 minutes were up, desperate not to catch anyone’s eye. Still, his job was done. By making himself appear so useless, he might just have made Eadie and Keen look a little better.With the government’s case – what there was of it – complete, the rest of the afternoon was handed over to Gina Miller’s barrister, Lord Pannick. Seldom has a man been less well named. Pannick exudes a sense of calm and has the uncanny ability to make you think you understand legal doublespeak even when you don’t.A Pannick attack is a thing of zen-like beauty. He doesn’t need to shuffle his papers because he never forgets a reference. Nor does he ever miss a beat. In his hands, a legal submission is more a cosy bedside story than adversarial confrontation.“If the government is right,” he began, “the 1972 European Communities Act has a lesser status than the Dangerous Dogs Act.”You could see the tension ease away from the 11 justices. They knew they were safe in Pannick’s hands and whereas their line of questioning to the government’s barristers had been provocative and sharp, they now turned into gentle pussycats.“Perhaps what you mean ... ” said one who had fallen under Pannick’s spell.“I don’t want to be pedantic ... ” said another, apologetically.“Your lordship is never pedantic,” Pannick replied. Killing with kindness is so much easier when you know that three divisional judges have already decided you are right and you are only looking for the supreme court to rubber-stamp their judgment.But Pannick wasn’t going to take anything for granted. Nor was he going to forget that his primary duty was to entertain. There was only so much of international planes and conduits that anyone could take, so he moved hurriedly on to some 1892 precedent about raiding a lobster preservation factory in Newfoundland. No one thought to ask him whether it was entirely germane to the proceedings because it was all rather fun and no one dares to interrupt the master in full flow.“The appellant has completely failed,” he concluded. The “in everything” was left unsaid but was understood by all.“Does this play into your arguments on the 2015 act?” asked Neuberger, thinking it was about time he said something.Like putty in his hands.The exploitation of agency workers (Agency workers ‘exploited and forgotten’, 5 December) has even spread to the Ministry of Justice which employs court interpreters through an agency. The MoJ can book me for a full day’s work but should the case be adjourned or cancelled when I show up, I will only be paid little more than an hour’s pay, putting the cost of cancellation or curtailment on me, the interpreter. What hope is there for agency workers’ conditions if even the MoJ colludes in this bad practice?Name and address supplied• Your obituary of the admirable anti-apartheid activist Walter Hain (5 December) is marred by the assertion the Liberal party was the only non-race-based political grouping in South Africa. Our sister party, the South African Communist party, has a powerful claim to be the political party that forged the strongest multi-racial unity.Nick WrightCommunist party media office, London• I don’t think your readers and columnists should be too hard on Zac Goldsmith. After all, he did keep his promise, thus becoming the first MP to keep a promise in the recorded history of parliamentary democracy.Alan SillitoeLondon• Adolf Hitler, Man of the Year, 1938, Time magazine (Nigel Farage shortlisted for Time magazine’s person of the year award, theguardian.com, 5 December).Felix BellabyHollingsclough, Staffordshire• Did no one tell Peter Gelb, director of the Metropolitan Opera, that Texaco sponsored the broadcasts of the company’s matinees for more than 60 years (Banks and oil giants should keep out of temples of culture, shouldn’t they?, G2, 5 December)? Ciarán O’MearaLondon• Two letters from Jill Wallis on the same day (6 December)! Look out, Flett, she’s gunning for you.Bob HornCranleigh, Surrey• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersFifty-five minutes into his submissions and Lord Pannick QC, who represents the lead claimant Gina Miller, appears to be receiving relatively few challenges from the semi-circle of 11 justices to his developing argument.Royal prerogative powers are not sufficient to nullify the 1972 European Communities Act which has a constitutional status, Pannick asserts.The US supreme court on Tuesday sided with Samsung in its big-money smartphone patent fight with Apple, throwing out an appeals court ruling that said the South Korean company had to pay a $399m penalty to its American rival for copying key iPhone designs.The justices in their 8-0 ruling sent the case back to the lower court for further proceedings.The decision gives Samsung another chance to try to get back a big chunk of the money it paid Apple in December following a 2012 jury verdict that it infringed Apple’s iPhone patents and mimicked its distinctive appearance in making the Galaxy and other competing devices.The court held that a patent violator does not always have to fork over its entire profits from the sales of products using stolen designs, if the designs covered only certain components and not the whole thing.The ruling followed a ferocious legal battle between the world’s top two smartphone manufacturers that began in 2011 when Apple sued Samsung, asserting that its rival stole its technology and the iPhone’s trademarked appearance. It was one of the most closely watched patent cases to come before the top US court in recent years.Samsung had been seeking to pare back $399m of $548m it paid Apple in December following a 2012 jury verdict finding that it infringed Cupertino, California-based Apple’s iPhone patents and copied its distinctive appearance.After a trial in 2012, Apple was awarded nearly $930m in damages. The US court of appeals for the federal circuit in Washington, in May 2015, upheld the patent infringement verdict but said the iPhone’s appearance could not be protected through trademarks. That cut Samsung’s damages back by $382m.The legal dispute centered on whether the term “article of manufacture” in US patent law should be interpreted as a finished product in its entirety, or merely a component in a complex product.In court papers, Samsung, Apple and the US government all agreed that the term could mean a component.But Apple urged the supreme court to affirm the appeals court’s ruling because Samsung presented no evidence that the article of manufacture in this case was anything less than its entire smartphone as sold. Samsung, meanwhile, said that it did not have to present such evidence.Justice Sonia Sotomayor, writing for the unanimous court, said that the patent law is clear. The term “article of manufacture is broad enough to encompass both a product sold to a consumer as well as a component of that product”, she wrote.Samsung in December 2015 paid Apple $548m. But it took the matter to the supreme court, saying it should not have had to make $399m of that payout for copying the patented designs of the iPhone’s rounded-corner front face, bezel and colorful grid of icons that represent programs and applications.Apple said its iPhone’s success was tied to innovative designs, which other manufacturers quickly adopted in their own products. Samsung in particular made a deliberate decision to copy the iPhone’s look and many user interface features, Apple said.Samsung argued that it should not have had to turn over all its profits on phones that infringed iPhone design patents, saying those elements contributed only marginally to a complex product with thousands of patented features.With the products that used iPhone designs, Samsung went on to become the world’s top smartphone maker.The supreme court heard arguments in the case on 11 October.Design patent fights very rarely reach the supreme court. It had not heard such a case in more than 120 years.After he took the role of international trade secretary, Fox boasted that he would have “about a dozen free trade deals outside the EU” ready for when Britain left. But it is illegal for Britain, as an EU member state, to negotiate bilateral trade deals. Fox later quietly backtracked on his promise. No one knows what he’s doing with his time at the moment.In a speech at the Conservative party conference, May promised that Britain would now control how it labels food. But these rules have nothing to do with the EU. They come from a general code at the World Trade Organisation (WTO). For May to deliver on this promise, she would have to adopt the North Korean model of total isolation. She either didn’t know what she was saying was nonsense, or didn’t care.If you want to sell pharmaceuticals in Europe, they have to have been cleared by European regulators. While we’re in the EU, that’s the case for the UK too. But what happens after we leave? Will a British regulator take up the slack? A fast, hard Brexit of the type being demanded by some Tory MPs would leave a window between leaving the EU and setting up our own regulators. During that period, drug firms wouldn’t be able to get their products authorised for the UK market, so, for a while, there would be no new eczema creams, asthma inhalers or any other new treatments available to British patients.Directors of trade bodies – many of them facing economic and regulatory disaster – went in to brief David Davis when he was made Brexit secretary. But before they got to his office they were taken to one side by civil servants and advised to go in saying Brexit was full of “opportunities”. Anyone who didn’t tended to be asked to leave after five minutes.If there’s one thing everyone accepts the Brexit vote demonstrated, it’s that people want to end freedom of movement. Except this isn’t true. Poll after poll taken during and after the campaign found that between 20% and 40% of leave voters either support immigration or prioritise the economy over reducing it – or just want to remain in the single market.Or at least we didn’t when we voted to leave Europe. Whitehall is now on a massive recruitment drive. We urgently need an army of general trade experts and ones with specialist knowledge in areas such as intellectual property law. The costs are painfully high. Some are quoting day rates of £3,000 to do consultancy work for the UK government. If they are hired full-time, their salaries will be lower – probably around the £100,000 mark.City bankers don’t have time to sit around waiting to find out what May’s Brexit plan is. In order to avoid losing passporting rights in Europe, they have to register an office with regulators on the continent – a process that could take years. They are therefore likely to make “no regret” decisions, meaning they will do things they wanted to do anyway. In this case, that means moving back-office administrative staff to locations with cheaper rents and lower salaries, such as Warsaw. The less you earn, the more likely you are to be affected.Brexiters argue that if we don’t get a good deal from the EU, we can fall back on WTO rules. They couldn’t be more wrong. The EU is a member of the Geneva-based WTO too. If the UK tries to unilaterally separate its trade arrangements from the EU without getting its agreement first, Brussels can trigger a trade dispute. For Britain to secure a decent relationship with the WTO, it needs to make sure it is on good terms with the EU.If Britain does pursue a hard Brexit, things get murky. There are no rules on how an existing WTO member leaves a customs union, because no one has ever been crazy enough to try it. Lawyers at the organisation are trying to sort out how this works and what the process will be.If Britain is to going to ensure stability during its transition from the EU to independent membership of the WTO, it will have to replicate all the EU’s tariffs (charges on imports and exports). This makes a mockery of everything Brexit stands for, of course, but if we changed any tariff, it would trigger an avalanche of trade disputes and lobbying operations. If Britain was to raise tariffs on ham, for instance, it would trigger protests and formal dispute claims from not just European ham producers, but those all over the world.There’s an EU agreement at the WTO preventing China from dumping cheap steel in Europe. Without it, plants such as Port Talbot would collapse as Chinese product flooded the market. When Britain leaves the EU, it will claim that it is still a signatory to this agreement and the Chinese will object. This dispute is likely to last for years. If Britain loses, it will likely lose its domestic steel industry.Ministers want to transfer all EU laws into Britain using the so-called great reform bill. The trouble is, they don’t know where to find them. The Equalities Act, for instance, is a messy mixture of EU and UK legislation. In every area of law, there are bits and pieces of EU directives. Good luck tracking them all down.Leaving the EU involves three things: an administrative divorce, the untangling of British and EU law, and (probably) a new trade deal. But only the first aspect is dealt with in article 50. The rest is up to Europe’s discretion. If they want to just talk admin, we can’t do much about it.If European countries don’t like the way article 50 talks go, they could decide to not recognise legal decisions from London. At a snap, British divorcees who live in Europe would suddenly find themselves in a state of marital limbo – with their home country recognising their divorced status, but their adopted country considering them married.Britain and Ireland enjoy legal protections against EU immigration law which allow them to “continue to make arrangements between themselves relating to the movement of persons between their territories”. This should prevent Brussels imposing a hard border for people in Ireland. But there are no protections against tabloid scare stories. After Brexit, we can expect campaigns about Polish plumbers crossing into England from Ireland to work. It will be nonsense – Polish people could just as easily use tourist visas – but it could be politically effective. If a hard border returns to Ireland, it will be because of Britain, not the EU.Leaving the single market will sever Britain’s relationship with its largest trading destination, but the problems don’t end there. Europe also has agreements with other major economies such as the US and Japan allowing it to transport goods without expensive and slow border checks. If Britain leaves the single market, we’ll lose these too. Oops.A bilateral trade deal with the US would see cheaper burgers in the UK. The Americans have lower animal-welfare standards, use growth hormones in their meat and have larger farms. This won’t be good news for British farmers, who will also be facing sky-high export tariffs and a possible end to subsidies. And it won’t be good news for animal rights campaigners. But burger lovers might be pleased.EU law insists on an independent veterinary presence in abattoirs. The problem is that 95% of the vets doing this job in Britain are European – most of them from Spain. The problem is one of demand. British vets study for years to cure family pets, not watch cows being slaughtered. But Europeans have less of a cultural hang-up about that type of thing and are also willing to accept the lower wages involved. If Britain doesn’t train up more domestic vets for the abattoirs, it won’t be able to sell meat to Europe or properly check it for disease.British fishermen want the UK to prise open the incredibly complex European system for allocating national quotas of fish stocks and renegotiate the whole thing. That will take a long time and a lot of manpower. If they get it wrong, the UK could face problems. The type of white meat we like for fish and chips doesn’t actually come from the UK – most of it comes from the seas around Norway and Iceland.The Americans have lower consumer standards than Europe on pretty much everything, from chemical safety to data protection. A bilateral trade deal will see them demand we lower our standards so their products can enter our market more freely. Given how desperate we’ll be, we’re likely to comply.Brexit: What the Hell Happens Now? by Ian Dunt (Canbury) is out nowThe Guardian revealed on Tuesday that the Ministry of Justice had been told that the restraint techniques it had approved for use on children in custody could kill them. A risk assessment carried out by an independent medical adviser concluded that 28 of the 66 sanctioned restraints had a 40% to 60% chance of resulting in injuries involving the airway, breathing or circulation that could have catastrophic consequences – catastrophic being defined as “death or permanent severe disability affecting everyday life”. It also revealed that many restraints are likely to result in so called “minor” or “moderate” injuries – such as fractures/dislocations and ligament/tendon damage.As well as explicitly chronicling the dangers we are subjecting our children in custody to, the risk assessment table demonstrates another important truth – that bad practice in secure training centres (STC) and young offender institutions (YOI) does not begin and end with G4S, or whichever private security firm is running them. The government itself is responsible for the appalling abuses carried out in the name of restraint because, quite simply, it sanctioned them in the first place.When Panorama and the Guardian exposed dangerous restraint techniques used in a children’s prison run by G4S earlier this year, there were howls of outrage from the prison establishment. First, Panorama secretly filmed a boy being squeezed by his windpipe by a guard in Medway secure training centre shouting out that he couldn’t breathe. Then the Guardian spoke to two women who had been detainees at Medway five years earlier who also said that they struggled to breathe while being restrained. A number of guards have been charged with misconduct in public office and taking photographs inside the prison.Soon enough, the Ministry of Justice and the Youth Justice Board, which oversees the safety and security of children in detention, appeared to conclude that G4S itself was the bad apple. Having ordered the company to come up with an improvement plan to prove it was fit to run the STC, in May it announced that the private security company would be stripped of the Medway contract, and that the government would take over its running.In its final report, the Medway improvement board concluded that Medway’s leadership team “has driven a culture that appears to be based on control and contract compliance rather than rehabilitation and safeguarding vulnerable young people”. It also suggested that official figures on restraint could not be believed because of the allegation that they were being falsified downwards to ensure that G4S complied with its contract.The damning report was perfectly fair. G4S could not have made a bigger botch of running Medway. (In 2015 it also lost the contract to run Rainsbrook STC after a joint report by Ofsted, the Care Quality Commission and the chief inspector of prisons into the centre condemned it for a series of failings.) But what the Medway improvement board never acknowledged was the government’s role in nurturing this culture.Perhaps this is unsurprising. After all, until the risk-assessment table was obtained through one of the many freedom of information requests made by the indefatigable children’s rights campaigner Carolyne Willow, we never knew that the government had been advised by an medical expert that its restraints could result in catastrophic injuries. Or to take one particular example, there is a 60% chance of a child being moved through a doorway while being restrained and wearing a waist restraint belt suffering injuries involving the airway, breathing or circulation that can be potentially catastrophic.The irony is that this relatively new restraint regime, known as Minimising and Managing Physical Restraint (MMPR) was only introduced in 2012 as a result of the death of two boys in secure training centres following restraints. (Fifteen-year-old Gareth Myatt choked on his vomit while being restrained by three officers; 14-year-old Adam Rickwood hanged himself after being restrained by four staff, one of whom inflicted a painful restraint on him known “nose distraction”.) MMPR was supposed to be more humane and safe. So what did the government do when it discovered that it wasn’t? It classified the risk-assessment table and heavily redacted the MMPR manual that is publicly available, concluding with absurd Kafkaesque logic that if everything about MMPR was publicly known, children would learn how to resist it and put themselves at more risk of being harmed.For four years, Willow has fought, unsuccessfully, to see the uncensored manuals. In refusing her most recent request, the MoJ wrote: “It is considered that on balance, the likely threat to the good order and security of YOIs and prisons and the safety implication of this for young people and staff in both YOIs and prisons favours non-disclosure of the unredacted version of the MMPR training manual.”When we approached the Youth Justice Board about the risk-assessment table, and the fact that it had only praised MMPR without mentioning the dangers, there was much off-the-record handwringing. What’s the option, it asked; tell us if a better system exists?So we did. One better system already exists in England and Wales. Secure children’s homes are run by local authorities rather than the MoJ, and they house some of the country’s most severe child offenders as well as some of the country’s most vulnerable non-criminal children. MMPR is banned in secure children’s homes (yet shockingly private security guards taking children to and from them can use it). They are expensive to run, but have low children to staff ratios, are learning-focused and are regarded as the closest this country has to model institutions for children in custody.Meanwhile, Spain offers an even more impressive model. In 2014 we visited children’s prisons in Spain run by a non-profit organisation Diagramma. Some of the buildings we saw were frankly terrifying – old-fashioned Victorian prisons surrounded by barbed wire. But the attitude of staff within them could not be more different to that too often found in the YOIs and STCs of England and Wales. In Spain, the prison officers are called educators, they all have degrees, are relatively well paid, and all have the children’s best interests at heart. There were guards on site, but they were rarely called to action. The educators and detainees called each other by first names, ate with each other and treated each other with respect. Love, even. Whereas there is an alarmingly fast turnover of staff in children’s prisons in the UK, in Spain we were told that staff rarely left.We asked the director of one institution we visited when restraint had last ended in injury, and he looked at us as if we were mad. Never, was the answer. In fact, he could not remember the last time restraint had been used, full stop. The way in which the staff in these prisons transformed dangerous and feckless youths into responsible young adults looking forward to a bright future was astonishing. If Spain can achieve something so miraculous, there is no reason why we can’t.Ex-Lord’s Resistance Army commander is accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity by international criminal courtThe justice secretary, Liz Truss, has ordered the rapid completion of an official review into the failing performance of the government’s privatisation of the probation service.Truss told MPs that the review into the privatised probation companies’ performance introduced by her predecessor Chris Grayling would be completed by April and would include a major overhaul as well as measures to improve the service.The announcement comes after highly critical reports by the chief inspector of probation, Dame Glenys Stacey, that found companies were struggling to deliver the supervision of 250,000 offenders a year.Tory MP Bob Neill, who chairs the justice select committee, has said probation service “risks heading for a car crash” and the 21 community rehabilitation companies have reported they are making a loss on almost all their seven-year contracts worth £3.7bn.Truss told the House of Commons on Tuesday: “Our probation officers do a vital job in turning offenders’ lives around. The prisons and probation minister is conducting a comprehensive review of the probation system focused on improving the quality of our probation services.“As with our plans for prisons we want a simpler, clearer system with specific outcome measures such as getting offenders off drugs, improving educational standards and getting offenders into apprenticeships and work.“We also want to see closer working with the prison service. We will set out our more detailed plans after our review is completed in April.”A joint review by the chief inspectors of probation and prisons into the performance of the part-privatisation of the probation service in June identified multiple failings in “through the gate” services, including the release from prison of one in three offenders without anywhere to live and no one in a sample of 86 offenders being given help in training, education or employment.The probation service was split in 2014 into 21 community rehabilitation companies, supervising medium- to low-risk offenders, and a public National Probation Service (NPS), supervising high-risk offenders.The “transforming rehabilitation” revolution, as it was dubbed, was introduced by Grayling when he was justice secretary. It included a pledge to provide supervision for the first first time for 50,000 short-term prisoners on their release without any significant extra funding.Stacey said last month that while the caseloads for the NPS were climbing, the companies’ caseloads were much lower than anticipated and they were supervising between 6% and 36% fewer offenders with a consequential loss of income. Many companies were considering whether they could continue to afford their current staffing levels. Very little innovative work was going on.The justice secretary also confirmed she was considering a new specific offence of prison corruption after the disclosure of Ministry of Justice (MoJ) figures that showed a sharp increase in the number of staff working for prison contractors excluded for alleged smuggling.The figures, released after a freedom of information request this year, showed the number of prison officers convicted, cautioned or dismissed for corruption over the last five years had remained relatively stable at 40 to 50 a year.But at the same time the number of other staff, mainly contractors, excluded from jail in connection with corruption allegations, such as smuggling drugs or other contraband, had risen from 40 in 2010 to 110 in 2015.A joint Metropolitan police and prison service investigation in 2006 suggested as many as 1,000 prison officers at that time were involved in corruption that ranged from accepting cash bribes to drug smuggling. At the same time, a corruption investigation into Pentonville prison in London led to the suspension of 14 staff.An MoJ spokesperson said: “The vast majority of our prison staff are hard-working and honest, but we remain vigilant to the threat posed by corruption. We take swift action against the small minority who involve themselves in corruption, and those who put fellow members of prison staff in harm’s way will face the full force of the law.“We have set out a range of measures in the recent prison safety and reform white paper to bolster our response to tackling this issue. These include closer working with the police, investing £3m in a new intelligence unit and developing a new corruption strategy in the new year. We are also considering options for the creation of a prison-specific offence of corruption.”One could be forgiven for wondering what the Independent Workers’ Union of Great Britain (IWGB) – a small trade union that represents mainly low-paid migrants and workers in the “gig economy” and relies on crowdfunding to help finance its initiatives – is doing intervening in the UK’s most important court case in recent history.The starting point for understanding why the IWGB has an interest in the Brexit case is this: the UK leaving the EU represents potentially the biggest assault on workers’ rights and migrants’ rights in a generation. Indeed it is difficult to overstate the degree to which working people depend on employment law that originates in Brussels.To name just a few examples: your right to paid holiday; your right not to be discriminated against because of your age or sexual orientation; your right not to be sacked or have your wages reduced when a company buys out your employer; your right to be consulted when your employer wants to make you and your co-workers redundant; protection against unfavourable treatment towards you if you work part-time; and equal pay for men and women.To get just a taste of what the removal of these rights would mean for our members, four of our (British) couriers are bringing an employment status test case which would now fall apart because it relies on legislation that comes from the EU.Similarly, two IWGB reps elected to represent University of London employees (the majority of whom are British) would no longer serve a purpose because they were elected through legislation that also originates in EU law. And our security guard members, who tend to work 12-hour shifts, could be stripped of their legal right to rest breaks.To say that the government will simply keep or reintroduce all these rights into British law – as unlikely as this is – rather misses the point. The importance of EU employment law is not just that in some instances it introduced rights that did not exist in the UK before; it’s also that for as long as the UK subscribes to EU law, current and future rightwing UK governments, in the name of austerity or whatever other wrongheaded ideology they are pushing, can’t undo these protections. And EU courts tend to interpret the laws more favourably for workers than UK courts do. These protections for workers are a fundamentally good thing, and the IWGB opposes any attempt to remove them.In terms of migrants’ rights, the EU’s free movement of labour principle has allowed hundreds of our members to come and work here after having lost everything in the economic crisis in Spain. Free movement has allowed others to come to London from central Europe in order to work for courier companies. As far as our members go, these migrant workers have not driven down wages but on the contrary, have left their jobs better than they found them.Spanish-citizen cleaners at the University of London led a campaign that saw the introduction of some of the best wages and terms and conditions for cleaners in the UK. Likewise central European couriers have contributed to campaigns that resulted in pay increases of 17%-28% in the UK’s biggest same-day delivery companies. Free movement has allowed our members to enjoy a better life, it has allowed them to bring their families over, and it has allowed them to contribute to improving pay, terms and conditions for their British co-workers. The IWGB opposes any restrictions on the current free-movement arrangements.So is the IWGB trying to block Brexit? No. But nor do we think Theresa May should be given free reign to implement the hard Brexit she thinks will get her re-elected in 2020. Before the prime minister potentially upends four decades of employment rights and turns upside down the lives of more than 3 million EU citizens, we believe there should be as much scrutiny and input from elected officials as possible. And we hope that that scrutiny and input will result in strong protections for workers’ rights and will avoid the temptation to restrict free movement.A common accusation against anyone in favour of free movement is that they are undermining democracy because the referendum result clearly reflected a desire to rein in immigration. The problem with reducing an extremely complex and multi-faceted issue into a binary choice is that it is nigh impossible to know for sure what a vote means. Of course some people voted to come out of Europe over immigration. Others voted to reject globalisation and free trade (yet the defining feature of the government’s public comments on Brexit is the extent to which it wants to make the UK a leader in free trade). Others voted to come out in protest against an establishment position that united leaders of all mainstream political parties, the governor of the Bank of England, the IMF and the US president. And others did so because they were told it would bring home £350m a week for the NHS. I also know plenty of people on the left who voted for Brexit because of how poorly the EU had treated Greece and refugees.Finally, for some voters “immigration” is little more than a proxy for concerns over low wages, job insecurity, insufficient housing and strained public services. I don’t think millions of workers across England and Wales purposely voted to deprive themselves of holidays. And given that no amount of EU migrants could do as much to increase job insecurity and drive down terms and conditions as the removal of EU employment law, we should focus on where the danger really lies.Perhaps the best way to put into perspective what the IWGB is doing getting involved in this case is to think about what Ukip would have done if it had lost the referendum. Would the party whose raison d’etre was to achieve Brexit simply have closed up shop and told its voters to go back to voting Tory or BNP or whatever it is they did before? I don’t think so. It would have continued to bang on about Europe and migrants until the cows came home. And as the sole trade union involved in one of the most important cases for workers in a generation, the IWGB will continue to bang on about workers’ rights and migrants’ rights, with as loud a megaphone as we can find, using every legal and democratic means available to us.Parliament will gain new and extensive controls over the conduct of foreign policy if the supreme court rejects ministers’ right to use the royal prerogative to trigger Brexit, a government lawyer has told judges.Addressing the 11 justices on the second day of the article 50 hearing, James Eadie QC denied that the government was seeking to undermine parliamentary sovereignty.Eadie said the ruling by the high court last month – that parliament alone has legitimate authority to give notice under article 50 of the treaty on European Union of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU – would have damaging consequences.“The reasoning of the conclusion of the [high] court has the most serious implications for the long-established use of the [government’s] foreign affairs prerogative,” Eadie said.If the high court’s judgment against the government stands, Eadie alleged, then a new restriction on the government’s executive freedom in foreign affairs will have been created.“It would introduce a much more stringent stream of control [by parliament through] a newly discovered principle,” Eadie said. “You would need primary legislation [to sign international treaties or other overseas developments].”Turning to government plans for passing legislation for triggering Brexit through parliament, if it loses the supreme court case, Eadie said that it would involve a “one-line act”. The act would not provide any further detail or insight into the way the government intends to develop its negotiations with the EU, Eadie said.Lord Keen, the Westminster government’s advocate general for Scotland, said that triggering article 50 would not damage the existing devolution architecture of the UK. “It’s perfectly clear that the matter of foreign relationships, foreign affairs and our relationship with the EU is not within the competence of the devolved legislatures,” he said.He was addressing the supreme court before representations from Welsh and Scottish government lawyers, who will argue that under the Sewel convention the Westminster government cannot alter the rights of the citizens in the devolved nations without parliamentary assent and the assent of the devolved legislatures.The role of the government’s great repeal bill came up at the start of the day’s hearing. “It’s valuable to know that it has no great legal significance,” Lord Sumption, one of the justices, said.Lord Wilson, another justice, intervened: “So you say it’s irrelevant?”Eadie, for the government, initially agreed but then said it was significant in as much as parliament was involved in debating Brexit.“You have given two diametrically opposed answers to the same question,” Sumption said. “We shall have to work out which one you accept.”A former militia leader from northern Uganda has denied committing war crimes including rape and murder, on the opening day of his trial at the international criminal court at The Hague, saying that as a child soldier taken by force from his home by the organisation he was a victim of its atrocities, not a perpetrator.Dominic Ongwen, once a feared commander of the Lord’s Resistance Army, told judges in a dramatic outburst that he was “one of the people against whom the LRA committed atrocities”. He said: “In the name of God, I deny all these charges.”The trial of is one of the most momentous in the ICC’s 14-year history, and raises difficult questions of responsibility and blame. Ongwen, who is between 35 and 40 years old, is the first former child soldier to face trial at the controversial institution and the first defendant to be both alleged perpetrator and victim of the same crimes.Ongwen was abducted by the LRA at the age of 10 when returning from school and is thought to have been forced to participate in combat and violent acts against civilians as a child. He told the court he should not be on trial.“I am not the LRA … It is the LRA who abducted people in northern Uganda. It is the LRA who killed people,” Ongwen said, speaking through an interpreter.A court official needed almost 20 minutes to read the 70 charges against Ongwen. They included murder, attempted murder, torture, rape, sexual slavery and, for the first time, “forced pregnancy” and “forced marriage”.Led by Joseph Kony, a former rebel leader who claimed to be religiously inspired, the LRA waged war across five countries in east and central Africa for nearly 30 years.The group has been blamed for the deaths of about 100,000 people and the abduction of 60,000 children. It relied on the abduction of largely defenceless villagers and refugees, including children, to provide labour and combatants. Girls were forced into sexual and domestic slavery while boys were forced to commit atrocities and conditioned to believe such acts were necessary and justified.Most of the charges against Ongwen focus on a series of attacks on refugee camps between 2002 and 2005. One of the worst involved a four-day raid by the LRA on camps in north-eastern Congo in December 2009, in which about 350 civilians were killed and another 250, including at least 80 children, were abducted.Defence lawyers will argue that much of the evidence against Ongwen is unreliable and say their client was brutalised and traumatised after being abducted.“He was tortured … forced to watch people being killed, used for fighting as a child soldier. Even the prosecution have said that what he went through is a serious mitigating factor,” said Thomas Obhof, a US lawyer based in Uganda and part of the defence team.Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda told the court that past victimisation as a child might be a mitigating factor in sentencing but was not a defence of Ongwen’s alleged decision to “wholeheartedly” embrace violence.“Ongwen was directly involved in many attacks on civilians … He knew that the crimes he committed were part of widespread and systematic attacks … He played a crucial role in …. the abduction of children in order to maintain the fighting strength of the LRA,” she told the court.Bensouda said eyewitnesses remembered Ongwen giving orders “to bite and stone an old man to death” and cited evidence that the majority of the children in Ongwen’s “battalion” were young teenagers who were regularly forced to participate in torture and murder “to convince them there could be no acceptance for them back in society”.Charge number 69 against Ongwen involved the alleged conscription of children under the age of 15 into an armed group, while charge number 70 alleged the use of children as combatants in an armed group between July 2002 and December 2005.Ledio Cakaj, the author of When the Walking Defeats You, a book that documents the experiences of a bodyguard to the LRA leader, Kony, said the trial raised “a very tricky issue”. He said: “A lot of these people of the LRA, who are considered as the bad guys, were in some sense victims in the first place … There are very interesting questions here.”The LRA is now believed to comprise only about 100 fighters, but remains feared by civilians in remote communities and an inspiration to other militia groups, which have copied its brutal methods. Every week brings reports of continuing attacks.Of the five senior LRA leaders indicted by the ICC 11 years ago, only Ongwen and his former leader, Kony, are still alive. Despite a $5m (£3.5m) reward for information leading to his capture, Kony remains elusive.Africa is still wracked by militia groups and militant outfits. Cakaj said that even though the trial dealt with events that occurred a decade or more ago it would raise issues that were relevant now.Boko Haram, the Nigeria-based Islamist extremist organisation, has abducted tens of thousands of men and women, with some taking up combat roles or even launching suicide attacks.“The issues are important today … Any lessons can be applied to ongoing conflicts [in Africa] too,” Cakaj said.The case is crucial for the ICC, too. Huge resources have been invested in building a case against the LRA leaders, whose arrest warrants were the first issued by the court.The ICC, founded in 2002 to bring to justice perpetrators of crimes that local criminal systems cannot deal with, has been criticised in Africa by some who see it as a racist, imperialist institution. Nine out of the 10 cases being investigated by the ICC involve alleged crimes in Africa, and recent months have seen South Africa, the Gambia, and Burundi announce their withdrawal from the court. It is possible, however, that none will leave, especially since elections in the Gambia ousted Yahya Jammeh.In September, the court convicted Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi, who pleaded guilty to razing medieval shrines, tombs and a 15th-century mosque that formed part of the Unesco world heritage site in Timbuktu, Mali, when the city was seized by Islamic militants in 2012. Mahdi was sentenced to nine years in prison.Defenders say the majority of the investigations have followed an explicit request or grant of jurisdiction from the government in the country where the crimes were committed, as in the case of Uganda; while others say criticism of the institution came when it started investigating acts that had been committed by current rulers or their close associates from 2009.Thousands in Uganda are watching the Ongwen trial in The Hague on screens set up by the ICC at viewing sites in the four locations where the most significant alleged crimes were committed. The trial has been hailed by human rights campaigners.“The ICC trial of Dominic Ongwen is a significant first on justice for LRA atrocities,” said Elise Keppler, associate international justice director at Human Rights Watch. “The LRA leadership is reviled worldwide for its brutality against Africans, but never before has an LRA commander faced trial.”My husband, Mohammed Ramadan, is due to be executed in Bahrain any day now. Our three young children are distraught. We want Theresa May, the British prime minister, to call for Mohammed to be released when she meets Bahraini leaders today on her Gulf visit. Our criminal justice system has failed him and the British government, which supports that system, has failed him too.In 2014 Mohammed was arrested at Bahrain’s airport where he worked as a police officer. My husband believes in human rights, democracy and transparency. He attended peaceful marches in Bahrain calling for our government to respect these values. As a state employee, he knew that it was risky for him to go to these protests. But he believes in reform and so he went anyway.After Mohammed was taken into custody, our family heard nothing for four days – we had no idea where he was, or even if he was alive. Eventually, two weeks later, we were allowed to see him, but only with three guards watching us on a surveillance camera. As soon as we saw him, it was clear that Mohammed had been tortured by the security services.Mohammed seemed weak and exhausted, and his body was trembling; this suggested to us that he had been subjected to extreme torture. But no one would tell us the reasons for his arrest or the charges against him.Later, he told us what they had done to him. They had detained him, naked and humiliated, in a freezing cold cell. They had beaten him. They had forced him to stand for days on end. They had electrocuted him. They had sexually assaulted him. They had made him listen to the screams of other prisoners being tortured. They had threatened to rape me and other members of our family in front of him.Their aim was to punish Mohammed for his participation in the pro-democracy protests by getting him to confess to a crime he did not commit. Eventually, Mohammed and his co-defendants signed false “confessions” to make the torture stop. Mohammed was not allowed to see or speak to his lawyer until after his trial had started. He was convicted on the basis of his forced confession, even though he had recanted it. This “evidence” – which would immediately be thrown out of any court in Britain – is the reason that my beloved husband and the father of my children is facing imminent execution.Shortly after my husband’s arrest, I submitted a complaint about his mistreatment to my country’s UK-trained ombudsman, who is meant to investigate such allegations. An international human rights organisation submitted a torture complaint, too. But the ombudsman conducted no investigation for more than two years, even as Mohammed was sentenced to death.Then this year, following intense pressure on the UK Foreign Office by human rights groups such as Reprieve and the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy, the ombudsman agreed to open a new investigation. I’ve been told that this investigation is now closed, but I know very little about its outcome. Furthermore, the Foreign Office has not yet called for his release.Sadly, my husband is not alone. In the past two years judges have handed down eight death sentences, including my husband’s. Many of these people have been convicted on the basis of confessions extracted through torture. The Bahrain government regularly strips its political opponents of their citizenship and sentences peaceful human rights activists to decades in prison.Throughout this time, the UK government has championed Bahrain’s supposed human rights reforms, spending millions coaching a torture watchdog, training hundreds of guards at the death-row jail where he is held, and secretly assisting Bahrain’s police, who continue to torture peaceful protesters.The only result of all of this that I have seen is that my husband remains in prison, facing execution for a crime he didn’t commit – while the people who tortured him still walk free.United Nations human rights experts are demanding answers from Beijing over the disappearance of a prominent Chinese lawyer they fear has been targeted by authorities in reprisal for meeting a UN official earlier this year.Jiang Tianyong, a 45-year-old Christian lawyer known for defending a number of prominent human rights activists, has not been seen since 21 November. Relatives and supporters believe he has been taken into secret custody by security forces.Jiang’s unexplained disappearance comes amid what appears to be a fresh wave of detentions targeting Chinese activists.Human rights groups say that more than 250 activists, lawyers and their relatives have been detained or interrogated as part of a sweeping crackdown labelled China’s “war on law” that began in July 2015.In a statement released on Tuesday by the office of the UN high commissioner for human rights in Geneva, the group said it suspected Jiang had become one of the latest victims of that campaign: “We cannot rule out the possibility that Jiang may have been disappeared by state agents because of his human rights work.The UN experts noted that as a result of his longstanding human rights work Jiang has been repeatedly targeted by Chinese police and agents from its powerful spy agency, the ministry of state security, which is tasked with tackling political threats to the Communist party.“We fear that Jiang’s disappearance may be directly linked to his advocacy and he may be at risk of torture,” said the statement. Philip Alston, the UN’s special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, said he was “deeply concerned that Jiang’s disappearance has occurred, at least in part, in reprisal for his cooperation with the UN during my visit to China”. Alston conducted a nine-day fact-finding mission in August, telling reporters in Beijing that President Xi Jinping’s crackdown on dissent risked causing mass unrest. “The international standards are clear: states must refrain from and protect all persons from acts of reprisal,” Alston said on Tuesday of Jiang’s disappearance.The UN representative claimed others he met during his trip to China were also subjected to apparent reprisals. “Governments must provide assurance that no persons will suffer intimidation, threats, harassment or punishment … for their cooperation with the UN experts.”The statement, which also has the backing of Michel Forst, the special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, and David Kaye, the special rapporteur on freedom of expression, came as activists said Li Heping, one of the most prominent Chinese lawyers caught up in last year’s clampdown, had been indicted on unknown charges.Li has not been heard from and has been deprived of all contact with his family since he was taken from his Beijing home on 10 July 2015. He is expected to be tried in the coming weeks.Eva Pils, a King’s College London scholar who knows Li, said she believed her friend was being denied independent legal counsel.“The authorities claim that Li Heping has appointed his own lawyers and dismissed the family-appointed ones,” she said. “This is wholly unconvincing.”Pils said Li’s wife and the spouses of other jailed lawyers continued to be subjected to “all kinds of reprisals merely for trying to find out what is happening to their husbands”.The German press agency DPA reported that French and German diplomats had been summoned by Chinese authorities after their governments honoured Li’s wife, Wang Qiaoling, with a human rights prize recognising her “tireless dedication to representing the families of lawyers and activists held in China”.In response, French and German officials called for Li’s immediate release, “in accordance with the rule of law, as set out in the Chinese constitution”.A former militia leader who took part in a campaign of violence across Uganda is to appear at the international criminal court for one of the most important trials in its 14-year history.Dominic Ongwen was among the most feared leaders of the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), a cult blamed for the deaths of about 100,000 people and the abduction of 60,000 children.He is accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including murder, pillage and enslavement, in northern Uganda and neighbouring countries.The specific charges that will be read out on Tuesday focus on a series of attacks on refugee camps between 2004 and 2005, but Ongwen has also been blamed for scores of other atrocities.One of the worst involved a four-day raid by the LRA on camps in north-eastern Congo in December 2009, in which about 350 civilians were killed and another 250, including at least 80 children, were abducted.Ongwen faces life in prison if convicted. He has pleaded not guilty.The trial has been hailed by human rights campaigners. Elise Keppler, an associate international justice director at Human Rights Watch, said it is a “significant first on justice for LRA atrocities”.But determining the guilt or innocence of Ongwen is less straightforward than the reams of evidence gathered by the prosecution may suggest.Ongwen was a child soldier and is believed to have been abducted by the LRA when he was nine years old. Therefore, according to his legal team and some observers, he is a perpetrator and a victim.Ledio Cakaj, the author of When the Walking Defeats You, a book that documents the experiences of a bodyguard to the LRA leader, Joseph Kony, said: “A lot of these people of the LRA, who are considered as the bad guys, were in some sense victims in the first place. It’s a very tricky issue … There are very interesting questions here.”Defence lawyers will argue that much of the evidence against Ongwen is unreliable and say their client was brutalised and traumatised after being abducted.“He was tortured … forced to watch people being killed, used for fighting as a child soldier. Even the prosecution have said that what he went through is a serious mitigating factor,” said Thomas Obhof, a US lawyer based in Uganda and part of the defence team.The prosecution is expected to emphasise that the former LRA commander’s competence, loyalty and aggression helped him quickly move up the ranks.Some Ugandans have called for forgiveness. “I want Mr Ongwen to be forgiven as some of us [other] rebel abductees have been forgiven, because the Bible says we should forgive,” said Dominic Ecodu, who spent 10 years with the LRA after being abducted aged seven.The savagery of Kony and his associates is not in doubt. The LRA waged war across five countries in east and central Africa for nearly 30 years and used mutilation as punishment, as well as kidnapping and raping young girls.The group is now believed to comprise about 100 fighters, but it is still feared by civilians in remote communities and an inspiration to other militia groups, which have copied its brutal methods. Each week brings reports of new attacks.Joseph Akweyu Manoba, a Ugandan lawyer appointed by the ICC to represent 1,500 of Ongwen’s alleged victims, said none of them believed that he was a victim. “They tell me that if the ICC doesn’t punish him and he returns to Uganda, then they will kill him themselves,” he said.The Ongwen case is also significant for other reasons. Of the five senior LRA commanders indicted by the ICC 11 years ago, only Ongwen and Kony are still alive. Despite a $5m (£3.5m) reward for information leading to his capture, Kony remains at large.Huge resources have been invested in building a case against the LRA leaders, whose arrest warrants were the first issued by the court.The ICC, founded in 2002 to bring perpetrators of crimes that local criminal justice systems cannot deal with to justice, has been criticised widely in Africa by some who see it as a racist, imperialist institution. Nine out of the 10 cases being investigated by the ICC involve alleged crimes in Africa.Defenders point out that the majority of the investigations have followed an explicit request or grant of jurisdiction from the government in the country where the crimes were allegedly committed, as in the case of Uganda. Others say the criticism of the institution only came when it started investigating acts allegedly committed by current rulers or their close associates from 2009.Despite this, the ICC, which has an annual budget of more than €150m (£127m), has made progress in recent months.In September, the court sentenced Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi to nine years in prison after he pleaded guilty to destroying shrines that formed part of a Unesco world heritage site in Timbuktu, Mali, when the city was seized by Islamic militants in 2012.South Africa, the Gambia and Burundi have announced their withdrawal from the court, but it is possible that none will leave.The Gambia’s president-elect, Adama Barrow, who beat the authoritarian ruler Yahya Jammeh in an election last week, has said the country remains committed to the ICC.On Monday, South Africa’s main opposition party launched a legal attempt to block government plans to withdraw from the ICC, claiming that the move is unconstitutional.Ugandan citizens will be able to watch Ongwen’s trial in The Hague because the ICC has set up “viewing sites” where some of the alleged crimes were committed.But Keppler added that many victims will not see justice, whatever the result. “Ongwen’s trial covers significant crimes, but does not extend to horrific LRA abuses committed outside Uganda,” she said. “This is a real loss for the LRA victims in [the Democratic Republic of the] Congo, Central African Republic and South Sudan.”Regular beatings, sleep deprivation, stress positions and solitary confinement are among the tools used by China’s anti-corruption watchdog to force confessions, according to a report by Human Rights Watch.The report throws the spotlight on to President Xi Jinping’s war on corruption, which has punished more than a million Communist party officials since 2013. Xi has said fighting corruption is “a matter of life and death” but many experts characterise the campaign as a political purge against members of rival factions.The opaque extralegal detention system is used by anti-corruption officials to hold suspects indefinitely until they confess. At least 11 have died while in the custody of the country’s widely feared Commission for Discipline Inspection.“President Xi has built his anti-corruption campaign on an abusive and illegal detention system,” said Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch.“Torturing suspects to confess won’t bring an end to corruption but will end any confidence in China’s judicial system.”All of China’s 88 million Communist party members can be subject to detention or shuanggui, which in Chinese means to report at a designated time and place, where suspects are held incommunicado and often in padded, windowless rooms.“If you sit, you have to sit for 12 hours straight; if you stand, then you have to stand for 12 hours as well. My legs became swollen and my buttocks were raw and started oozing pus,” a former detainee is quoted as saying in the report. Names were withheld for fear of government reprisals.Others have described detention simply as a “living hell”. It is extremely rare for those who have been through the system to speak openly.In one account a detainee was kept awake for 23 hours a day, forced to stand the entire time and balance a book on his head, one lawyer said. After eight days he confessed “to whatever they said” and was then allowed to sleep for two hours a day.While Xi champions his anti-corruption drive, he has also advocated enhancing China’s “rule of law”, but activists say the two concepts are completely at odds when suspects are tortured and forced to confess.Although the anti-corruption campaign is technically separate from China’s judicial system, Human Rights Watch documented cases where prosecutors worked alongside corruption investigators, using the shuanggui system to gather evidence. After the extralegal detention, cases are usually transferred to the courts, where there is a 99.92% conviction rate.“In shuanggui corruption cases the courts function as rubber stamps, lending credibility to an utterly illegal Communist party process,” Richardson said. “Shuanggui not only further undermines China’s judiciary – it makes a mockery of it.”Those sentiments have been echoed by western governments as Xi has ramped up his anti-corruption push and use of the system has skyrocketed.Shuanggui “operates without legal oversight” and suspects are “in some cases tortured”, the US State Department wrote in its annual human rights report on China. Some confessions extracted in detention were eventually overturned by courts, the US government report said.Government officials are the majority of suspects disappeared into the system, but bankers, university administrators, entertainment industry figures and any other Communist party member can be detained.Human Rights Watch called for shuanggui to be abolished, adding that successfully fighting corruption required “robust protections for the rights of suspects”.“Eradicating corruption won’t be possible so long as the shuanggui system exists,” Richardson said. “Every day this system threatens the lives of party members and underscores the abuses inherent in President Xi’s anti-corruption campaign.”Miss C. H. Pankhurst, daughter of the late Dr. Pankhurst, spoke last evening at a meeting of the Manchester Athenaeum Debating Society on “The admission of women to the legal profession.” It will be remembered that not long ago Miss Pankhurst was refused permission to qualify for admission to the Bar. In her address, which did not command unanimous assent, Miss Pankhurst said that she regarded the fight some of them were making to enter the legal profession as an attempt to remove one of the heaviest of the disabilities – and there were more than a few – to which the women of this time and this country were subject. She instanced as cases where obstacles had been raised one of a lady who had taken the London degree of LL.B. but was not allowed to qualify as a barrister, and another a lady in Scotland who, though not allowed to become a qualified law agent, was yet doing a lawyer’s work. She was the managing clerk of a busy lawyer, in fact his “right-hand man.”In England, Miss Pankhurst said, women were not even allowed to submit themselves for the preliminary examination in order to become students of the Inns of Court. There was no law which excluded women from the solicitor branch of the profession, as she contended. She supposed, however, that if they went before the judges to decide upon the words of the Act they would find some way of deciding that the Act could not be construed to extend the right to women. “I suppose they think,” Miss Pankhurst added, “What is the good of being a lawyer if you cannot twist the law to your own ends?” At all events, she contended, there was no law against the admission of women to the legal profession, but there was the opposition of a very strong and determined trade union. – (Hear, hear.)The reasons why she thought women ought to be admitted to the law were stated by Miss Pankhurst. First, this was a means of earning a living. The need of occupations for women seemed rather on the increase. She understood men did not want women to enter the profession, but unless they were lawyers they would see no reason why the law should have special protection against them. – (Hear, hear.)Besides the stern necessity, there was among many women a desire for independence, and there should be free entrance into the profession. Every human being ought to have the right to the occupation best suited to his or her nature and talents. Further, in the legal as in the medical profession, she held that women ought to have the right to consult and take advice from women. In years to come it would be thought strange that the system which had obtained in our law courts should have been what it is.The theory of the English Constitution was that people should be tried by their peers, but what did we find as to women? They were not relieved from any penalty for wrongdoing, from any burden the law threw on citizens in general; yet if they had to come before the courts they were not allowed to have their cases tried by a jury wholly or in part consisting of other women, nor was it ever possible that the judge upon the bench should be a woman, or that they should have women to represent them as counsel. It was extraordinary that this state of affairs had not worked more injustice than it had. At the same time, the ordinary citizen went little into the courts, and we could not lay it down that no injustice had happened. It was to be feared that it had.It was a strange thing, she went on, that in England, a country which had taught other nations so much of liberty, should be so far behind in the admission of women to the profession of the law. In France, where women were in some respects behind those of England, they were admitted. So in Switzerland (in the cantons of Geneva and Zurich) and in Italy. In Rome a woman who was an LL.D. was a lecturer in law at the University. In the United States of America women had been long admitted. In nearly every State there were women lawyers, and not only were they ordinary lawyers, but sometimes got official positions. One lady (in Chicago) was said to make so large an income at the Bar as $10,000 a year. Miss Pankhurst thought that in this matter of income might lie a reason why English lawyers resented the idea of women lawyers. “Perhaps,” she said, “they do not want to share these $10,000 incomes with members of the other sex.” – (Laughter.) In Canada, in Victoria, in New Zealand there were women lawyers, so that England was not only behind other countries, but behind her own colonies and dependencies. – (Hear, hear.)The attorney general for England and Wales, Jeremy Wright, makes his opening remarks to the Supreme Court on MondayTheresa May’s plan to implement Brexit without the authorisation of a vote in parliament would be “a contemporary necessity” rather than a misuse of outdated ancient royal powers, the attorney general said at the start of the most keenly awaited constitutional law case in recent memory.Opening the government’s submission in front of the 11 justices of the supreme court, Jeremy Wright QC and MP told the highest court in the land that royal prerogative powers were an essential part of the UK’s unwritten constitution and could therefore legitimately be used to trigger article 50.Wright argued that the high court had been wrong to rule last month that article 50 could only be triggered after a vote in parliament, and said that the EU referendum had been conducted “with the universal expectation that the government would implement the result”.The attorney general was speaking in front of a Westminster courtroom so crowded with lawyers, journalists and members of the public that some of the barristers and solicitors taking part had had to sit in neighbouring courts and watch the hearing by live video link.Also present was Gina Miller, the fund manager who is the lead claimant in the case against the government. She was cheered loudly as she entered the supreme court and took a seat behind her legal team on the left-hand side of the court.Protesters from both sides of the argument appeared outside the court; at 9am, the number of Europhile protesters outside the supreme court far outnumbered the Brexiters. An open top, double-decker bus carrying supporters dressed as judges, in wigs, capes and duelling swords parked outside. They chanted, “Nigel, where are you?”Inside, Wright argued: “The foreign affairs prerogative is not an ancient relic, but a contemporary necessity. Including the powers to make and withdraw from treaties, it is a fundamental pillar of our constitution as a sovereign state and it is essential to the effective conduct of public business.“The need [for governments] to maintain control of strategy and policy matters is clear and compelling.” Parliament is sovereign, Wright added, but it had chosen to limit the government’s prerogative powers “sparingly, conscious of the need for executive powers”.At issue is whether the government, through its executive powers, or parliament, because it originally passed the 1972 European Communities Act, can trigger article 50 of the treaty on European Union, which formally begins the UK’s withdrawal from Brussels.The politically sensitive case has provoked fierce attacks on the judiciary and claims from some newspapers that certain justices harbour private Europhile sympathies. In court, the arguments have exposed gaps in the UK’s unwritten constitution, as rival legal teams draw on different precedent cases and wrench an untested consensus apart.Wright was followed by James Eadie, the seasoned presenter of government cases in the courts. Developing the government’s arguments following Wright’s opening submission, Eadie said that powers to make war and peace have long been part of the government’s executive powers.But Eadie ran into a barrage of queries from the justices on the court, challenging the source of the royal prerogative and the limits of its use and peppered his presentation with questions, observations and interruptions.Referring to the way in which the UK entered what was then the EEC, first Lord Wilson and then Lord Neuberger, president of the supreme court, pointed out that parliament and the government had worked together in 1972. “If entry was the result of a joint effort, should our departure [from the EU] also not be so?” Wilson inquired.Neuberger remarked: “Parliament did its bit in passing the 1972 act. It was very much a joint affair. Whereas on [the government’s] argument, our withdrawal will not be a joint effort “Lord Sumption, another of the justices, intervened to point out that where statutory instruments are normally replaced by parliamentary legislation, prerogative powers are removed only by implication.Lord Reed asked whether what happened in 1972, when the European Communities Act came into force, should not dictate the means of withdrawal from the EU. Eadie disagreed. “What we are in the process of answering is a contemporary legal question,” the first Treasury counsel shot back.Precedents summoned in support of the government’s prerogative powers included the De Keyser case, which related to compensation claimed for military occupation of a London hotel during the first world war. In that instance, the government relied on prerogative powers to limit compensation. Also invoked were the commercial failure of Freddie Laker’s Skytrain and a case involving the Fire Brigades Union.Earlier, the attorney general had said that parliament had not voted to scrap the royal prerogative when it could have done so. The 2010 Constitutional and Reform of Government Act introduced a series of controls on ratification of treaties, “but it did not seek to control the prerogative powers [of the government] to make it withdraw from treaties”, Wright told the packed supreme court.Parliament had been “fully and consciously” involved in drawing up the referendum legislation, the attorney general said. “Parliament expected the government to act on the answer the people gave.”“If this is all about standing up for parliament,” Wright continued, “I say parliament can stand up for itself. When it comes to leaving the European Union, parliament has had full capacity and multiple opportunities to restrict the executive’s ordinary ability to begin the article 50 process, and it has not chosen to do so.”As the case began, Theresa May’s official spokeswoman attacked both the Labour party and Liberal Democrats for failing to swing behind “the UK team” over the issue of Brexit. The comments from No 10 came after the spokeswoman was asked about the suggestion by Jeremy Corbyn and others that they would attempt to amend any bill on article 50 that the government introduced in the event of defeat in the supreme court.“While others are seeming to make clear that they want to frustrate the will of the British people by slowing down the process of leaving and trying to tie the government’s hand in the negotiation, the government is getting on with respecting what the British people decided and making a success of Brexit,” she said. “If you are backing the UK team, you want them to be able to go into the negotiation and get the best deal possible.”Before the legal arguments began, the president of the supreme court said none of the parties involved in the case had asked any of the 11 justices to stand down, or recuse themselves, from the hearing. Stressing the court’s determination to assert its impartiality in the proceedings, Lord Neuberger said: “At the direction of the court, the registrar has asked all the parties involved in these proceedings whether they wish to ask any of the justices to stand down,” Neuberger explained.“Without exception, all parties to the appeal have stated that they have no objection to any of us sitting on this appeal.”Every government needs a go-to troubleshooter. For more than a decade, anything that looks like a problem with a social policy dimension ends up with Dame Louise Casey. She is, as one headline writer recently had it, the tsar for all seasons – social exclusion, homelessness, troubled families and now community cohesion. But, however talented, no one person can be an expert in all these fields, and in a world where so much solid, careful research is undertaken in academic and policy wonk circles, she may be losing her shine. Not only has her troubled families programme, launched after the 2011 riots, been found to do quite a lot less than it promised; her review of community cohesion, written in little more than a year, has overlaid much sensible if largely familiar analysis of the migrant experience with a few confrontational suggestions and recommendations, like the arrivals lounge oath to “British values” that feels tailored to appeal to a particular demographic.Before she was asked to do this latest review, Dame Louise was in Rotherham, looking at the underlying failings in the council and police behind an appalling episode of child sex abuse. Her latest review, published on Monday, revisits the kind of problems that she saw there, in particular the danger that a fear of appearing racist leads people who might intervene to look the other way even to condone what she calls “regressive ... cultural and religious practices”. Problems related to the activities of sharia councils and Muslim arbitration tribunals (MATs) are given a high profile. She is right that there are important points to make about the way some women experience discrimination, in particular in relation to divorce. She makes some sensible recommendations. Yet it feels as if she makes them with half an eye on Rotherham, and it undermines her argument. Child sex abuse happens in many places: ask a footballer.Social cohesion is not a one-way street. Nor are sharia councils or MATs part of the experience of most Britons. The bigger point about community cohesion and immigration is how rapidly some areas have changed, and how inadequate public service provision – or even detailed knowledge of the need for provision – has been. Dame Louise is clearly alert to the dangers of making minority groups feel as if they are a problem, yet she falls into the very trap she so carefully describes. The word Muslim appears on almost every one of the 300-plus-page report, and Islam gets 100 mentions too. The review was launched by David Cameron in the course of a speech on extremism, and, if rarely spoken, the idea is never far away. So while it is reported that more than half of the general public think that there is a fundamental clash between Islam and British values, the findings of a survey by the University of Essex in 2013, which found that 83% of Muslims were proud to be British, compared with 79% of the general public, are not mentioned. In the end, the focus on Muslims, with scant recognition of the variety of Islamic faiths, undermines the strengths of Dame Louise’s findings.Poverty, bad housing, access to education and skills – regardless of ethnicity these are well-recognised obstacles to success; in some towns ethnically Asian children underperform at school, but white working-class boys everywhere do worse. A command of English is vital, but there are many reasons why women may not have it. Opposition at home is one, but it might be badly timed classes, or, more likely still, their cost. When David Cameron announced that non-English speakers risked deportation, he had just cut £45m from the English language teaching budget. Councils say their biggest challenge is not understanding what needs to be done, but finding the cash to do it. As a forthcoming report about life in Bedford from the IPPR thinktank observes, what’s needed is not compulsion but the small, sensitive improvements in services that build confidence across the whole community.A graduate has won a round in his £1m legal battle over his failure to get a first from Oxford University.Faiz Siddiqui alleges the “appallingly bad” teaching he received on the Indian special subject part of his modern history course resulted in him only getting an upper second degree when he took his finals in June 2000.Oxford University, which claims the case has no merit and was brought outside the legal time limit, had asked Mr Justice Kerr to strike it out at an early stage. But on Monday the high court judge allowed the action to proceed to be fully argued.He said it was agreed resources were stretched to teach the course, and part of Siddiqui’s claim had a prospect of success.Siddiqui, 38, claims a number of members of staff were absent on sabbatical leave at the same time and that there was a failure to remedy the issue. He has also alleged the university mishandled medical information about him being submitted to the examiners, although Oxford claimed this was taken into account.He claims he would have had a career as an international commercial lawyer if he had gained the top qualification at the end of his time at Brasenose College. He alleges his anxiety, depression and insomnia have been significantly exacerbated by the wrongs he claims to have suffered.Siddiqui did not have an overwhelmingly strong case in relation to his medical issues, but this too passed the legal test of whether it had a real chance of success, the judge said.While the university was right about the number of years that had passed, so that memories had dimmed and exam scripts were unavailable, Kerr said Siddiqui had a real chance of persuading a judge the case was not time-barred or that it would be just for it to proceed in any event.Directing that the claim should be tried as soon as possible, he said: “For those reasons I am satisfied the university has a case to answer.”The UK higher education sector has a global reputation for excellence, offering high-quality learning opportunities for more than 2.5 million students across a diverse range of universities and colleges, large and small.As the representative bodies for UK higher education, Universities UK and GuildHE recognise that new primary legislation, in the form of a higher education and research bill, is essential. The regulatory framework has not kept up with the implications of fee changes, increased competition and the growth in new alternative providers. That is why we support the objectives of the bill to provide greater protection for students and ensure that all providers of higher education – old or new – can be regulated fairly, consistently and on the basis of risk.However, in the form that gets its second reading in the House of Lords on 6 December, the bill retains flaws. Proposals that would allow untested organisations to award degrees much more quickly and without robust, independent scrutiny of their suitability. Our members are concerned about the potential for the secretary of state to intervene in areas such as academic standards and course funding, and they reject proposals that a government body, rather than an existing higher education provider, should be able to underwrite degrees awarded by a new provider.The government was right to introduce the bill. But we need the House of Lords to amend and improve the bill over the coming months to transform it into the legislation our world-class higher education sector needs.Julia Goodfellow President, Universities UK (and vice-chancellor of the University of Kent) Joy Carter Chair, GuildHE (and vice-chancellor of the University of Winchester)• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersA lone man, disguised as an elf – though he could have been a lone elf, disguised as a man – carried a placard that read: “Nigel Farage was sent by Christ to get Britain out of Europe and Fulfill [sic] Bible Prophecy”. He didn’t quote chapter and verse. Of Nigel himself, there was no sight. Christ had come to him in a vision and warned him that leading a People’s Army to the supreme court to protest against a vote that hadn’t gone his way in the divisional courts might not be the best of looks for the self-proclaimed saviour of democracy. The only activists out on the street were a busload of Europhiles who appeared mildly disappointed there were no Brexiteers to taunt.Inside court one, cohorts of lawyers searched vainly for a seat. The government’s appeal against the ruling that insisted article 50 could not be invoked without an act of parliament has been good business for the legal profession. Dozens of juniors were sidelined into an overspill room to make sure there was enough seats for a few members of the public and a handful of journalists. There was a brief frisson when Gina Miller, the woman who had originally taken the government to court, entered the room, but the day wasn’t really about her. The opening day was for the government to put its best foot forward and convince the court that it could do without parliament’s help in leaving the EU.On the stroke of 11am, the 11 supreme court justices entered the wood-panelled court room and took their seats. Neither they, nor other members of the judiciary, have taken kindly to being branded the undemocratically elected “Enemies of the People” by the Daily Mail – pots and kettles come to mind – and Lord Neuberger opened with a warning about the level of threats that had been made against both them and some of the original claimants.Jeremy Wright, the attorney general, who was the lead-off man for the government, ought to have been embarrassed by the necessity for Neuberger to make such introductory remarks, but didn’t appear to bat an eyelid. Either because the government is quite happy for the Daily Mail to rubbish the judges on its behalf, or because he didn’t quite understand their significance. Most likely the latter. Wright may have his talents, but being a lawyer does not count as one of them. The job of attorney general usually goes to one of the top legal minds in the country, not to someone who was described by a former MP as “a third-rate conveyancing lawyer”. But the government doesn’t have anyone better qualified, and so a man more used to pleading cases of failed dampproofing courses was charged with being its warm-up act.“Very sensible,” replied Neuberger, anxious to avoid the attorney general getting even further out of his depth.Wright sensibly cut to the chase. He stuck to reading his script – only stumbling once or twice over some of the longer words – and sat down again within 20 minutes, having basically told the court that he wasn’t really qualified to be there, he didn’t understand any of the issues, and was going to let James Eadie, aka the Treasury Devil, do all the heavy lifting. He’d only been there for ornamental purposes.“I don’t propose to go on and on,” Eadie began, before going on to do just that. The courtroom began to feel stifling and one or two people began to get very heavy-lidded. Sensing he was losing his audience before he had started, Eadie made a bad gag, at which a few of his team laughed sycophantically. Lady Hale was unmoved, observing that some of his bundles were not in the right order.That intervention was the cue for the judges to mount polite guerrilla warfare on Eadie for the rest of the day. They knew he was too bright to be this vague, so the only possible reason he could have for deliberately missing the point was to steer them away from the fact that he wasn’t entirely sure what point it was he was trying to make. This kind of thing doesn’t normally bother lawyers of Eadie’s calibre, but it’s not every day you’re up against the 11 best legal minds in the country.Eadie blustered on with talk of ambulatory conduits on the international plane and double-negative resolution procedures, but the justices were not to be swayed. Time and again they picked him up on the detail.“This isn’t reflected in the papers,” said Lord Mance.“This is another possible instance of you stating something in the wrong place,” observed Lord Wilson.“Why are you spending so long on 1972?” inquired Lord Carnworth.“Is this realistic?” interrupted Lord Mance, who was turning into Eadie’s bete noire. “There’s a huge difference between changes to the rules of a club and deciding not to be a member of that club.”Eadie puffed out his cheeks. It had been a long day. And Tuesday might be even longer.Like Kevin Spacey’s character in The Usual Suspects, a mystery name echoed around the supreme court on Monday during otherwise dry legal argument over the government’s right to leave the European Union. Instead of “Who is Keyser Söze?”, the question on the lips of the 11 justices and dozens of lawyers was: “What does Keyser tell us?”The Keyser in this instance is De Keyser, a luxury hotel on the Thames that was requisitioned during the first world war to house officers in some opulence but then became a byword for government overreach when the owners successfully sued for compensation.The landmark 1920 legal judgment was one of a number of historical cases bandied back and forth in the supreme court as it attempted to judge whether parliament should be consulted before the government begins the far more vexed process of leaving the EU.Other surprise cameos in this dramatic twist of the Brexit tale were played by the 1970s airline entrepreneur Sir Freddie Laker, the Stuart monarch King James I, and another test case involving the Fire Brigades Union.But it was the De Keyser role that presented the most obvious challenge for government lawyer James Eadie QC. In theory, it establishes a precedent that where parliament has intervened already – originally by setting out terms for wartime compensation, and now through the 1972 European Communities Act – the government cannot simply turn to the prerogative of Stuart kings for its independent authority.Eadie decided to tackle this head on, repeatedly invoking the name of the long-forgotten luxury hotel as he argued that the government maintains its historic prerogative to conduct foreign treaties despite the shared role of parliament in taking Britain into the EU.“You know, I hope, and think, and if not, someone had better shout, but you know the background and the nature of the facts,” he told the justices. “The army council requisitioned a hotel for the use of the Royal Flying Corps and it denied the hotel owners a right to compensation.” Just to make sure, he made them read key passages of the landmark judgment in an effort to show that things were different in the case at hand.Ironically, De Keyser was founded by a Belgian immigrant on a site a mile or so down river from the courtroom, on land now occupied by Anglo-Dutch multinational Unilever.Another challenge to the government’s authority also kept popping up in the guise of Laker Airways Ltd v Department of Trade, which found that the government had similarly overstepped its power to ignore legislation by preventing the launch of Skytrain, a low-cost competitor to British Airways.In the end, argued Eadie, the right of ministers to invoke article 50 and thus alone begin the process of leaving the EU relies on power far older than 1970s budget airlines or first world war-era hotels. The power inherited from kings and first tested in the 1611 Case of Proclamations is no “ancient relic”, claims the government, but a “‘fundamental pillar of our constitutional state”.The attorney general for England and Wales, Jeremy Wright, makes his opening remarks to the Supreme Court on Monday in Westminster. Wright outlined the government’s grounds for appealing the High Court’s ruling over the right to trigger Article 50. The court proceedings are due to continue until ThursdayThe Ministry of Justice (MoJ) is facing calls to scrap and rewrite the policy on restraining minors after it emerged that a report it commissioned found some authorised techniques could kill children or leave them disabled.An internal risk assessment of restraint techniques, obtained by the Guardian, shows that certain procedures approved for use against non-compliant children carry a 40% or 60% chance of causing injuries involving the child’s airway, breathing or circulation, the consequences of which could be “catastrophic”.The undated report defines catastrophic injury as “death or permanent severe disability affecting everyday life” and ranks the chances of it occurring in each approved restraint technique out of five. It found that 28 of the 66 scenarios assessed had at least a 40% chance of causing that level of harm.The medical review of restraints applied to children in young offender institutions (YOIs) and secure training centres (STCs) was completed for the government by an independent medical adviser and made public for the first time after a freedom of information (FoI) request.Carolyne Willow, the director of children’s rights charity Article 39, who obtained the documents, said: “What kind of society trains adults to use restraint techniques that could cause children to die or be severely disabled? “Techniques assessed as potentially causing catastrophic harm to children, with a likelihood of more than never, should be immediately struck out of the manual.“Children have reported feeling terror, panic, desperation, shame, humiliation and anger during restraint. These testimonies from children, together with the appalling restraint-related deaths … should remain uppermost in our minds. We need a completely fresh start with policy and practice led by experts in looking after children.”Willow has been engaged in a long-running legal battle for greater transparency in the government’s approach to youth restraints. The risk assessment forms part of a broader manual on restraint techniques, known as the MMPR (pdf), which has only been released to the public in redacted form, but the full version of which is the subject of an FoI appeal launched by Willow that could be taken to the court of appeal.The MoJ refused to make the syllabus publicly available on the grounds that some of the techniques in the manual are similar to those used in adult prisons, and its release could undermine the safety of prisoners and guards across the justice system.However, it released the risk assessment table for children being restrained using MMPR in detention or being taken to detention, which also includes children being deported. An MoJ spokesman said restraints were intended to be used as a last resort to prevent detainees harming themselves or others, to prevent damage to property and to prevent escape, but critics have warned that the guidelines are open to misuse.He added: “Every incident of restraint is reviewed by the establishment. This includes looking at whether any lessons can be learned for the future. We have introduced a new system designed to minimise the use of physical restraint in youth custody and we are committed to improving practice further.”YOIs take young people up to the age of 20. In March this year, there were 882 children (under-18s) in custody in England and Wales, and 4,668 18- to 20-year-olds. The three STCs in England and Wales have a combined capacity of about 270.In 2015, there were 28 incidents of restraint per 100 children, which was up from 10 per 100 children in 2010. There were 429 injuries to children reported as a result of restraint in 2015.Among the techniques identified as dangerous in the risk assessment is moving a child through a doorway while wearing a waist restraint belt, for which there is a three out of five chance of suffering breathing difficulties resulting in catastrophic harm.The independent medical adviser also found that head holds, the mandibular angle technique (which involves applying upward pressure below the jaw, near the ear), moving a child under restraint, a figure of four leg hold in prone position, and strip-searching a child in prone position or on their side all had a two in five likelihood of resulting in grave harm.Moving a non-compliant child off transport, restraining a child on the ground, a figure of four arm hold to an inverted wrist, thumb flexion, moving a child under restraint “whilst negotiating stairs”, rigid bar handcuffs, straight arm hold to an inverted wrist also all had a three out of five chance of resulting in fracture or dislocation and ligament or tendon damage.The assessment acknowledges that such injuries require hospital attendance or admission but rates them only as “minor” or “moderate”.The Youth Justice Board (YJB) says officers receive “detailed medical advice on the physiological aspects of the youngest age range to make sure that the use of force is minimised, used only when necessary, and, when it is used, that the risk of injury to young people is minimised”.Staff are trained in the use of MMPR by experts, and understanding is assessed through a written test and scenario-based exercise. The manual states that they “must be able to demonstrate the required level of understanding before being authorised to use MMPR in an operational environment”. Staff receive a minimum of one day’s refresher training every six months.Willow has fought for children’s rights in custody since the death of 15-year-old Gareth Myatt in 2004. He was being restrained after refusing to clean a sandwich toaster at Rainsbrook secure training centre. Myatt, who weighed 40kg (six and a half stone) and stood 1.47m (4ft 10in) tall, was forced into a sitting position by three G4S officers, his upper body bent towards his thighs and knees. The officers ignored Myatt’s cries that he could not breathe and was going to defecate, which he did before vomiting. One restraining officer was 1.85m tall (6ft 1in) and 90kg (14st). When Myatt told the officers he could not breathe, one replied: “Well, if you are shouting, you can breathe.”His death was later found at an inquest to be accidental. The restraint technique used, known as the seated double embrace, was withdrawn two months after he died.MMPR, which was introduced following a lengthy review in 2012, was intended as a safer and more humane way of restraining children, emphasising the importance of staff using their existing relationships with children to de-escalate volatile incidents, and minimising the number of children who experience restraint. The risk assessment is believed to have been commissioned by then. But in the 2015 report by HM Inspectorate of Prisons, former chief inspector Nick Hardwick wrote: “Children frequently reported to us that they struggled to breathe during a restraint.”In granting the FoI request for the risk assessment, the MoJ stressed: “If a technique scores highly in the consequences section, it does not mean that this injury will occur, as it is scored with the worst possible outcome in mind.”It added: “To date there have been no recorded serious injuries or warning signs recorded from the escort services.”Dave Hill, president of the Association of Directors of Children’s Services, said: “Department for Education guidance is absolutely clear in that restraint should only be used where absolutely necessary and should be reasonable and proportionate to the circumstances. Restraint that deliberately inflicts pain should never be used on children.”A spokeswoman for the YJB said: “The safety and welfare of the young people in the youth justice system is of paramount importance to the YJB. MMPR was devised by a team of experts who extensively researched and carefully considered the best ways to keep children in custody, and the staff looking after them, safe. Restraint should only ever be used as a last resort with staff using their relationships with the children in their care to manage their behaviour. Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Prisons’ thematic on MMPR published last year concluded that MMPR was a good system but it needed more time to be embedded.”Nearly half of Americans believe it acceptable to torture enemy combatants, according to a new survey which suggests that 15 years of warfare have significantly recast American attitudes on torture.The poll, conducted by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), found that 46% of Americans believe it acceptable to torture enemy combatants, with just 30% opposed to the practice and another 24% unsure or unwilling to answer.Only Nigeria and Israel record higher rates of support for torturing captured enemy fighters, with 70% and 50% endorsements, respectively.By contrast, in 1999 – the last time the ICRC conducted its “People on War” poll – 65% of Americans said the US could not torture captured enemy fighters, and 57% favored permitting an independent monitor to observe detention conditions.The survey found a coarsening of attitudes towards obligations to civilians in wartime among people in the US, UK, Russia, China and France – the permanent members of the United Nations security council, which possess disproportionate power to set the global governance agenda.As Donald Trump, who has endorsed torture enthusiastically, prepares to take the White House, some 33% of Americans consider torture “a part of war”, with another 13% unsure or unwilling to answer.The poll found that 54% of Americans consider torture “wrong”, a lower proportion than in any other population save for those of Israel and Palestine. Only 44% of Israelis and only 35% of Palestinians considered torture to be wrong.The poll comes as rising tides of illiberalism have washed over the world’s great powers. In addition to Trump’s election, the UK has voted to leave the European Union and in France, the leader of the far-right Front National has led in a number of polls ahead of next year’s presidential elections. Russia and China have become more expansionist than they have been in decades, with Russia destabilizing Ukraine and China pressing maximalist territorial claims in the South China Sea.Absolute opposition to torture was recorded by 100% of Yemeni respondents, 73% of Syrians, 68% of Iraqis, 80% of Ukrainians, and 58% of South Sudanese.Across the so-called Permanent Five countries on the security council, 46% of respondents advocated additional assistance to migrants and refugees fleeing conflicts, an urgent question seized upon by rightwing politicians in Europe and the US in response to an influx of Middle Eastern refugees. But 79% of respondents from conflict-wracked nations urged greater help.“There is a higher degree of acceptance amongst people living in the [Permanent Five Security Council] countries and Switzerland that the death of civilians in conflict zones is an inevitable part of war,” found the ICRC, which polled 17,000 people in 16 countries.Across those countries, 48% of people believe that a captured enemy combatant cannot “be tortured to obtain important military information”, a figure sharply lower than the 66% opposition recorded in 1999.Areas in active conflict record greater urgency over questions of civilian protection in wartime than do the great powers that often conduct or participate in those conflicts. In Ukraine, 83% believe everyone wounded and sick during a conflict has a right to health care, compared with 62% of Russians. A full 100% of Yemenis endorse the proposition, as do 81% of Afghans, 66% of Syrians and 42% of Iraqis – compared with 49% of Americans, 53% of Britons, 37% of the Chinese and 67% of the French.Only 59% oppose attacking a target with the knowledge that civilians will be killed, down from 68% in 1999, the ICRC found. While the 2016 study did not break the finding down by country, in 1999, its predecessor poll found that 52% of Americans believed the US ought only attack enemy combatants, while 42% believed the US should leave civilians alone “as much as possible”.Turning to the 2015 legislation that authorised the EU referendum, Eadie acknowledged it did not explicitly explain how the result should be put into effect.But, he said, that did not mean that the act was, as the high court ruled, “legally irrelevant”. It implied that the royal prerogative should be used to implement withdrawal, Eadie said.“Was parliament in 2015 really in setting up the referendum doing nothing more than simply reserving to itself the right to leave the EU?” he asked. “Not merely is it highly improbable, but that would run counter to the repeated statements of ministers and the government.”Both apps from legal publishers LesixNexis allow students to access digests of more than 300,000 cases and 3,500 definitions of legal terms and phrases. On the Case allows you to search for cases by name, citation or keyword, and gives each case a status signal indicating how judges have treated them. To access login details, students should download the LexisLibrary apps on the iPhone, open the app and click on the “academic” link. After completing the registration form using only your academic email address, an email will be sent to your university email with login details. But beware: both are currently only available on iPhone.Designed by law student Timothy Leigh, this app claims to “put the law in your pocket”, enabling you to access almost all UK, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales primary legislation as well as acts of parliament. It contains all the text of legislation available at legislation.gov.uk, and the information is helpfully stored offline on your device. It comes with a hefty price tag – but there is a seven-day free trial to try it out first.These document-scanning apps pretty much do what they say on the tin, allowing you to quickly scan documents and handwritten notes into PDF images.This app will save the hand-ache of scribbling away in lectures by turning your phone into a dictaphone.This referencing tool is a useful shortcut to gathering all those footnotes, endnotes and citations for essays, allowing you to scan the barcodes from the journals or books from which you are quoting.Helps you keep your assignments and calendar events in order.You can use Evernote to jot down your thoughts, ideas, images, to-do lists, and makes them available and searchable across all of your devices.Lets you create documents, spreadsheets and presentations and work on all of your Microsoft Office and PDF files. You can access them anywhere, with cloud storage support for ShareFile, DropBox, Box, Google and others.Store all your notes, documents and pictures on the cloud, and access them from any of your devices.Really useful during work experience, this app provides the map locations and full contact details for police stations, courts, Citizens Advice Bureaux and community legal offices.Helps you manage your money. You can link up all of your accounts and get an up to date view of your balances. It sorts your spending into categories such as food, travel, entertainment and bills, so you can see where your maintenance loan is going.Keeping up to speed with legal news as well as general current affairs is essential for developing your critical and analytical thinking skills – but sifting through it all to find the good stuff can be time-consuming. Trade magazines and online legal titles are highly recommended for more focused news:Keep up with the latest on Guardian Students: follow us on Twitter at @GdnStudents – and become a member to receive exclusive benefits and our weekly newsletter.The use of the government’s royal prerogative for executive actions, such as triggering Brexit, is not an ancient relic of outdated laws but a crucial part of the modern state’s powers, the attorney general has told the supreme court.Opening the argument on behalf of the Department for Exiting the European Union in the pivotal constitutional case, Jeremy Wright QC said the EU referendum had been conducted “with the universal expectation that the government would implement the result”.The high court – which last month declared that only parliament had the authority to initiate Brexit – had been wrong to dismiss the way the referendum was organised as “legally irrelevant”, the attorney general said. The result of the 23 June vote was 52% to 48% in favour of leaving the EU.“The use of prerogative in foreign affairs is not an ancient relic but a … fundamental pillar of our constitutional state,” Wright said. “The need [for governments] to maintain control of strategy and policy matters is clear and compelling.” Parliament is sovereign, Wright added, but it had chosen to limit the government’s prerogative powers “sparingly, conscious of the need for executive powers”.At issue is whether the government, through its executive powers, or parliament, because it originally passed the European Communities Act 1972, can trigger article 50 of the treaty on European Union, which formally begins the UK’s departure from the EU.The four-day hearing in front of 11 justices of the UK’s highest court has provoked fierce attacks on the judges who have to decide the politically sensitive dispute. The courtroom argument is straining the UK’s unwritten constitution, as rival lawyers stress different interpretations of legal precedents.Most of the morning’s legal exchanges revolved around the nature of the royal prerogative, the executive powers inherited by the government from the crown, and how parliament had legislated to restrict such executive freedom in the past.The Constitutional and Reform of Government Act 2010 introduced a series of controls on ratification of treaties “but it did not seek to control the prerogative powers [of the government] to make it withdraw from treaties”, Wright told the packed supreme court.Parliament had been “fully and consciously” involved in drawing up the referendum legislation, the attorney general said. “Parliament expected the government to act on the answer the people gave.“In this case, the imposition of a legislative pre-condition by the courts which parliament did not choose to impose cannot be supportive of parliamentary sovereignty,” Wright said.James Eadie QC, who developed the government’s arguments after Wright’s opening submission, said powers to make war and peace had long been part of the government’s executive powers. “Governments can take steps without further parliamentary legislation including by removing [individuals’] rights,” he said.The rights of UK citizens are frequently affected not only by the government’s international dealings but by other sovereign states making decisions. Greenland’s departure from the EU took away rights of UK citizens in relation to that country, Eadie pointed out.He added: “The starting point is the expectation from parliament and the courts to require clarity before prerogative powers are removed … It’s no small thing to alter the constitutional balance by limiting longstanding powers.”But the supreme court justice Lord Sumption intervened to point out that where statutory instruments are normally replaced by parliamentary legislation, prerogative powers are often removed only by implication.Eadie said parliament had already intervened in the areas of treaties and decided – in the 2010 Constitutional Reform and Governance Act – what prerogatives should exist.But referring to the way in which the UK entered what was then the European Economic Community, both Lord Neuberger and Lord Wilson pointed out that parliament and the government had worked together in 1972.“If entry was the result of a joint effort, should our departure [from the EU] also not be so,” Wilson inquired.Neuberger said: “Parliament did its bit in passing the 1972 act. It was very much a joint affair. Whereas on [the government’s] argument, our withdrawal will not be a joint effort.”The European Union (Amendment) Act 2008 was a review of parliamentary powers over relations with the EU, Eadie said. It even mentioned article 50 in its introductory notes but, Eadie continued, “parliament’s intention was to leave article 50 well alone. Parliament chose not to extend its explicit powers to include withdrawal from the EU.”Turning to the 2015 legislation that authorised the EU referendum, Eadie acknowledged it did not explicitly explain how the result should be put into effect.But that did not mean the act was, as the high court ruled, “legally irrelevant”, he said. It implied that the royal prerogative should be used to implement withdrawal.“Was parliament in 2015 really in setting up the referendum doing nothing more than simply reserving to itself the right to leave the EU?” he asked. “Not merely is it highly improbable, but that would run counter to the repeated statements of ministers and the government.”In his opening remarks, the president of the supreme court said none of the parties involved in the case had asked any of the 11 justices to stand down before the hearing.Neuberger’s comments, made after fiercely critical coverage from pro-Brexit newspapers, reflects the court’s determination to assert its impartiality in the proceedings.“It is right to record that, at the direction of the court, the registrar has asked all the parties involved in these proceedings whether they wish to ask any of the justices to stand down,” he explained. “Without exception, all parties to the appeal have stated that they have no objection to any of us sitting on this appeal.”He also reminded the media that the names of some of the former claimants and their families should not be identified because of online abuse.“We have made this order largely because various individuals have received threats of serious violence and unpleasant abuse in emails and other electronic communications,” Neuberger said.“Threatening and abusing people because they are exercising their fundamental right to go to court undermines the rule of law. Anyone who communicates such threats or abuse should be aware that there are legal powers designed to ensure that access to the courts is available to everyone.”There are so many lawyers, journalists and members of the public in court that some of the barristers and solicitors taking part have had to sit in neighbouring courts, watching the hearing by live video link.A handful of demonstrators gathered outside the court, some carrying union flags, as the dense legal argument probing the significance of past cases continued. Scores of police officers were on patrol outside the court in Parliament Square. There was no sign of any trouble.Attacks on the upper middle class composition and presumed (right wing) political leanings of the judiciary used to be the preserve of the left.Now the attacks on the mono-social class of senior judges and their presumed (pro-European Union) political leanings are being waged from the right.The Daily Mail, in particular, has worked itself up into a fury about the matter, which means, of course, that its editor-in-chief, Paul Dacre, has done so.One of his key complaints is that judges are unelected, as is the other major group of Brexit oppositionists, members of the House of Lords.I don’t recall Dacre - or his employer, Viscount Rothermere - standing for election. They rely instead on pointing to the fact that their large newspaper audience gives them a mandate, and that they speak for them.In fact, according to the latest National Readership Survey, the Mail is read by about 3.35m adults every day. Given that the current UK population is 64m, the Mail’s reach is barely 5%.But the paper’s influence is far greater than those figures suggest. Why? Partly, because its audience contains a sizeable chunk of society’s major opinion-formers. And partly, maybe mainly, because we, the competing media, help to publicise it.Media is obsessed with media. And, before you click to make the obvious point, I am, by the nature of my media commentating role, one of the guilty parties.We police each other and, in so doing, we promote each other. Broadcasters, whether on TV or radio, live off newspaper content. Social media is the most promiscuous of press parasites.It means that the Mail carries weight out of all proportion to its audience (and don’t be fooled by the Mail Online numbers: people don’t read that website for the paper’s political output).The point is that the Mail’s views are known far beyond its regular readership. It is also influential because, like it or not, and Guardian readers generally do not, the Mail is good at what it does. Good, you might say, at being bad.It long ago eclipsed the Sun as the major Fleet Streeet agenda-setter. It is the outstanding paper of this generation and other right-of-centre papers - the Sun, Daily Telegraph and Daily Express - acknowledge that fact by singing from its hymn book.Whether consciously or unconsciously, they pick up on its general approach to the politics of the day, echoing its opinions and offering tacit support to its campaigns of vilification.I am sure a larger number of Sun readers voted for Brexit than Mail readers. Sun editor Tony Gallagher has no time for the European Union and his paper campaigned unrelentingly for leave during the EU referendum campaignBut the whole tone of the media’s anti-Brexit crusade was forged in the Kensington headquarters of the Mail. And its chief architect was therefore Dacre.Now, as fears of a possible Brexit breakdown loom, he is leading the assault on the judiciary. In Monday’s Mail, he ran a spread decrying the “secret” way in which the 11 judges are selected for Britain’s supreme court, comparing it unfavourably with the public selection of their US equivalents.He also carried a leading article, in which it was argued that it is “utterly impossible” for the judges “to deliberate in a vacuum.”Many people, and including many on the left, would have some sympathy for the view that the judicial selection process is too secretive.I’m not sure, however, if we would benefit from adopting the US system of public grillings in the senate, which the Mail concedes to be a sometimes “ugly spectacle.”Greater transparency about how the supreme court members are chosen would not be unwelcome, but do we want to select them on the basis of their political views?That would surely lead to what happens in the States: the loading of the court to suit the politicians of the day, most notably the sitting president.I suspect that that is exactly what the Mail wants, as its editorial polemic implies. Ever since the high court ruled that parliament had the right (and duty) to vote on Britain leaving the EU, the paper has ignored the reality of that decision having been made on a legal, not a political, basis.So it now believes the supreme court will follow suit, contending that the 11 judges cannot possibly “be guided only by intellectual legalistic principles, divorcing themselves from the consequences of their decision.”Then comes a wonderful example of tortured Mail logic. The judges cannot, says the paper, be “impervious to the political heat and fury surrounding their ruling.”Which begs the question: who is responsible for generating most of “the political heat and fury”? And will the judges remain impervious to that?All 11 of the UK’s most senior judges will take their seats on the supreme court bench on Monday to decide whether parliament or the government has the authority to trigger Brexit.The four-day hearing on the divisive constitutional issue will be broadcast live, testing the public’s appetite for intricate legal argument, arcane vocabulary and historical precedents.The “justices”, as supreme court judges are known, may still be pondering their conclusions as they digest their Christmas puddings; their eagerly awaited judgment is not expected to be delivered until January. Emotions are running high. Ukip has accused those behind the claim of being “arrogant federalists” intent on blocking Brexit, the Daily Mail has branded the high court judges who found against the government in the first round as “enemies of the people” and individual challengers – such as Gina Miller – have received death threats.Nigel Farage’s pledge to lead a protest march of 100,000 Brexiters to the doors of the court may have receded, but the high-ceilinged courtroom will be packed with senior law officers and QCs from Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales as well as the rival claimants’ legal teams and interveners.On Monday, Labour’s shadow attorney general, Shami Chakrabarti, said the political aspect of the case had been “hyped in parts of the media”. She said: “This is about process. It is not about outcomes.”Chakrabarti told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “It’s not just about doing it or not doing it. There are lots of questions to be decided about what happens next – how we live after Brexit, what our relationship will be with the remaining states of the European Union.”She said it was unfair for newspapers to delve into the personal lives or supposed opinions of the judges.“They have to be referees of the constitution,” she said. “If we start dragging these people through the media or through politics, putting them through a kind of political scrutiny – people like me are fair game, but the judges are not fair game. They cannot speak up for themselves. We all need them in the end if we’re going to settle our disputes in a civilised way in a courtroom.”The panel of 11 justices is the largest ever assembled for a single case since the law lords were created in 1876. Such judicial mass mobilisation is recognition of the constitutional significance and political sensitivity of the hearing. The bench will be led by the president of the supreme court, Lord Neuberger, and his deputy, Lady Hale. There are 12 justices on the court but one has recently retired and is yet to be replaced. The court normally sits in panels of five; an odd number is always required to ensure there cannot be a tie. The court is housed in the neo-Tudor exuberance of what was once Middlesex County Hall, Westminster, opposite parliament. Its proceedings are less archaic than most crown courts: wigs are no longer worn and hearings are routinely broadcast live online. Most documents will be in digital versions. Daily transcripts of the hearing will be published.The legal dispute is over who has authority to notify Brussels formally that Britain is withdrawing under article 50 of the treaty on European Union (TEU) – parliament or ministers.Article 50 states that any member state may leave “in accordance with its own constitutional requirements”, an undefined term that has allowed both sides to pursue rival interpretations. The case has opened deep rifts in the consensus over the UK’s unwritten constitution.Having lost by a three-nil ruling at the high court, there was speculation that the government would switch its argument on appeal and tell the court that article 50, which triggers Brexit, can be reversed at a future date by parliament. That would enable ministers to say that once triggered, MPs would have a subsequent opportunity to control the process.Acknowledging that Brexit is not irrevocable would, however, be politically awkward for the prime minister and could risk the case being referred to the European court of justice (ECJ) in Luxembourg, the EU’s highest court, for clarification of the treaty’s meaning.Such a diversion – apart from handing European judges power over the most intimate working of the UK’s constitution – would delay Brexit for months. None of the main parties is eager for a referral to Luxembourg.The justices are unlikely to want it either but may not be able to ignore the question entirely. Some of the appellants from Northern Ireland argue in their submission that “if the court feels that anything turns on this issue ... plainly it is an issue of EU law which should be referred to the court of justice of the European Union”.Legal submissions are due to be opened by the attorney general for England and Wales, Jeremy Wright QC, who will outline the government’s argument that executive powers, inherited through what was once the royal prerogative, are sufficient to sign and authorise international treaties. The industrious James Eadie QC, whose work as “Treasury devil” requires him to be present at innumerable cases involving the government, will pick up the more detailed line of reasoning along with Jason Coppel QC. The Brexit secretary, David Davis MP, formally the respondent in the case, is not expected to be present in court.As well as Wright, who is a Conservative MP, other senior law officers taking part include the counsel general for Wales, Mick Antoniw, who is a Labour member of the Welsh assembly, Scotland’s lord advocate, James Wolffe QC, and the attorney general for Northern Ireland, John Larkin QC.The original challengers have retained a host of successful QCs to develop their assertion that the government cannot arbitrarily remove rights established through domestic legislation by executive decree. Parliamentary sovereignty, they maintain, is supreme.• Gina Miller, a UK investment manager. She is represented by the law firm Mishcon de Reya, Lord Pannick QC and Rhodri Thompson QC.The 51-year-old lead claimant was born in Guyana but became a UK citizen. Miller has received death threats. She denies that her challenge is aimed at reversing Brexit. She has commented: “All the people who have been saying ‘we need to take back control’, ‘we need sovereignty’, well you can’t have it with one hand and then with the other say, ‘I’m going to bypass it now and not seek consultation from the representatives in parliament’. You just can’t have it both ways.”• Deir Tozetti Dos Santos, a hairdresser who holds UK and European citizenship, is represented by the law firm Edwin Coe, Dominic Chambers QC and Jessica Simor QC.Dos Santos, 37, works at a salon in Belgravia, central London. He has kept a lower profile than Miller and has been targeted with online abuse. After winning the high court case, he told The Guardian: “I have never challenged the result of the referendum – in fact I voted for Brexit in the referendum for the sole reason that I wanted power to be returned from Europe to the British parliament.“But I did not think it was right for government then just to bypass parliament and try to take away my legal rights without consulting parliament first ... In her speech to the Conservative party conference, the prime minister attacked me for bringing these proceedings as a claimant. She said I was trying to subvert democracy. That was an unwarranted and irresponsible attack.”• The People’s Challenge, a crowdfunded initiative, represented by the law firm Bindmans, Helen Mountfield QC and Gerry Facenna QC. It is the first fully-funded claim on CrowdJustice to reach the supreme court. One of the leading activists is Grahame Pigney, who lives in France. “The rights and privileges of Britons [who live in Europe] didn’t figure in the Brexit debate. The referendum was advisory. It must go back to parliament ... as parliament has granted us these rights, it is for parliament to decide when, how and under what circumstances they are taken away.”• AB and a child, represented by the law firm Bhatia Best and Manjit Gill QC. Brought on behalf of children whose right to residence in UK depends on their EU treaty rights.• Fair Deal for Expats, a group formed by British expatriates living abroad in 10 EU states, represented by the law firm Crofts Solicitors and Patrick Green QC, has been given permission to intervene [join the case].• Scotland’s lord advocate and Wales’s counsel general will be allowed to participate in the hearing.• Aiden O’Neill QC, representing the Independent Workers Union of Great Britain, will argue that using the royal prerogative will undermine the “legislative competence” of the Scottish parliament.• Lawyers for Great Britain, a pro-Brexit group led by Martin Howe QC, believe the result of the referendum should be implemented without further delay.• Cases heard in Belfast on the constitutional impact of triggering article 50 will also be joined up to the dispute in the supreme court. The Northern Ireland attorney general, John Larkin QC, argues that the Good Friday peace agreement “has nothing to do with EU membership”. The unsuccessful challengers in the Belfast high court disagree with him.Educated at Westminster School and studied chemistry at Oxford University, Lord Neuberger worked at a merchant bank before joining the bar. First judicial appointment as a recorder, a part time judge, in 1990. His wife’s pro-European tweets have led to Eurosceptic calls for him to stand aside from the case.The most senior woman on the bench, studied law at Cambridge University, then lectured at Manchester University while practising as a barrister. She specialised in family and social welfare law, becoming a high court judge in 1994. A speech she delivered setting out the arguments ahead of the Article 50 case infuriated Brexiteers.He read law at Oxford University and practised in Germany before becoming a recorder in 1993. He represented the UK on the Council of Europe’s Consultative Council of European Judges from 2000 to 2011. Lord Mance was forced to withdraw from giving a speech about justice in Europe in November because of political sensitivities ahead of the article 50 court case.Formerly Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland, Kerr was educated at St Colman’s College, Newry, and read law at Queen’s University, Belfast. In 1993 he was appointed a high court judge. He was last the Law Lord appointed before the creation of the supreme court.He specialised in maritime and commercial law at the bar and became a recorder in 1985. Clarke conducted the Marchioness and Bowbelle Inquiries and was appointed Master of the Rolls in 2005. He was the first justice to be appointed directly to the supreme court in 2009.He read law at Oxford University and specialised in family law. Wilson was a high court judge in the family division and joined the supreme court in 2011.After studying history at Oxford university, he became an academic and has continued to publish books on the Hundred Years War. He joined the bar in 1975 and apart from part time judicial roles, he continued to practise as a barrister until joining the court in 2012. He has served on the judicial appointments commissioner.One of the two Scottish justices on the court, he studied law at Edinburgh University. Reed has sat as an ad hoc judge of the European court of human rights.He studied law at Cambridge University, and served as attorney general to the Prince of Wales from 1988 to 1994. Carnwath has been chair of the Law Commission.He became a crown court recorder in 1985 before progressing up through the judicial ranks. He joined the supreme court in 2013.He is the other Scottish judge on the court. Hodge has served on the Scottish Law Commission and was one of the Scottish intellectual property judges. He joined the court in October 2013.Last Wednesday 11 green leather seats were placed behind a semi-circular bench in court number one of the supreme court. Never before had 11 chairs been needed. The court has never before sat “en banc” – as a full bench of judges.The seats were tagged with yellow Post-it stickers, the judges’ surnames scrawled on them so nobody could mistake where they were to sit. A teenage boy from a Belfast grammar, here on a school trip, stared at the stickers. Neuberger (David), president of the court, in the middle; his deputy, Hale (Brenda), to his right; Sumption (Jonathan), another well-known name, three down on the left. “Why is it the judges can overturn Brexit?” the teenager blurted out. His teacher wrung her hands. Had the boy paid more attention he’d know that judges had done no such thing. They are not concerned with politics but with upholding the rule of law.The point of law at issue – to be examined again when the government’s appeal starts on Monday – is not whether Brexit can be triggered under article 50 of the Lisbon treaty, but how. What is the legal route?The government claims it can act alone, without consulting parliament, citing prerogative powers wielded by the crown until the civil war, which they claim can still be used when international treaties are concerned.Those challenging the government accept that article 50 is part of an international treaty, but argue that it is embedded in British law by the European Communities Act of 1972. Because of this, and because withdrawal directly affects the rights of British citizens, only parliament can trigger it. It was to preserve those rights that in 1648 parliament ordered the king’s head to be chopped off.When the high court ruled against the government last month, Brexiteers, led by Nigel Farage’s Ukip, erupted in furore, and the Daily Mail declared the judges “enemies of the people” standing in the way of Brexit. And yet not only were the judges not obstructing Brexit, they were giving more power to parliament – which is what the out camp had called for throughout its campaign.This week’s hearing is perhaps the most important constitutional case in 140 years. It has a significance far wider than Brexit. Not since 1876, when law lords first sat, have judges been asked to rule so broadly on who in Britain wields power. Unless the justices hold the line, asserting the sovereignty of parliament, tyranny of the majority threatens, according to human rights lawyers. “That tyranny today is embodied in the hyenas of the Daily Mail and the populist politicians both here and in the US, “ said Lord Lester, staunch campaigner for the removal of all crown powers. “I say make parliament the king.”But it is precisely because the case is so important that the onslaught on the judges by the Mail, as well as the Murdoch press and Ukip, has been so extreme. Their attacks – made uglier because the judges cannot answer back – stem from the fear that if the supreme court upholds the earlier ruling, it might undermine the hard Brexit they wish for.In a sense, these attacks have been no surprise – they are a continuation of the intemperate leave campaign’s stirring up of distrust of the liberal elite and its institutions. And the judges, though not all liberal, are certainly all part of the elite: with only one woman on the bench and no ethnic minorities, they have a long way to go to be truly representative.Even so there is a wider context, because courts and judges are under attack around the world, as the populist surge spreads and accepted norms are discarded. Donald Trump plans to fill three potential vacancies in the supreme court with rightwing ideologues. And the international criminal court is being undermined by the desertion of a number of African countries, led by South Africa.High on the Brexiteers’ complaints is that the judiciary is unaccountable. The Mail proposes that judges be elected, but this entirely misses the point of the British system, in which the judiciary, the third arm of government, must remain independent to enforce the rule of law without fear or favour.This is not to say, however, that the judges can’t be accountable. In their own way they are. These are men and women who, as one lawyer put it, “deal in words” – analysing and weighing the words of earlier judges, and adapting their meaning for today. One could say therefore that they are answerable to judges past, to whose gowns were once cut from the same cloth and to whose words they owe a duty of care when considering or reproducing them – such as Sir Edward Coke, who in a 1610 case insisted: “The king hath no prerogative but that which the law of the land allows him.” Quoted in the high court judgment, Sir Edward will no doubt be heard again this week, as his guidance is sought by the supreme court.The justices are embracing transparency as a way of being accountable too. It is now nearly 10 years since they left their home in the dingy committee rooms of the House of Lords to move into a rebranded supreme court building. This week’s hearing will be live-streamed on four channels, with an internal video link for those who cannot find a seat in the court itself. This openness may have increased the scrutiny of and hostility towards the judges themselves. Even so, transparency has been a good thing.Though the attacks have been extraordinary and unprecedented, there are signs that the judges will not be cowed. Sitting “en banc” they have strength in numbers. They cannot be accused of fixing the result by selecting the most pro-European among them to hear the case. A carpenter has even extended the bench to make sure the 11th judge can squeeze in behind.Once they have heard both sides, they will deliberate in private. Neuberger will give each judge a say, starting with the most recently appointed - those sitting on the outside edge of the bench - and working his way in. When the degree of consensus is clear, one will write the draft of the judgment, while others with dissenting views will write theirs. If possible, Neuberger will then seek to close the differences, achieving unanimity.Hale and Neuberger are liberals and will be wary of overturning the earlier ruling, especially given the seniority of the judges in that case. Some say the two Scottish judges could be dissenters, as might Sumption, a known conservative. If he dissents, his arguments could be of sufficient intellectual calibre to win others round.On the other hand, Sumption is also a medieval historian who knows how painstakingly the country has constructed its rule of law. It is said that Sumption has been outraged by the attacks on judges, and has been heard to warn that the very political order is in danger of collapse. In that case, he may prove the most independent of all.As the 11 justices take their seats they will certainly be prepared for more attacks from the Mail and others. On Friday came the paper’s worst salvo yet, a carefully crafted set of slurs about the judges and their families, with sinister hints that far worse was yet to come. Saturday brought more external pressure as the critical arguments to be made to the supreme court by Jeremy Wright, the attorney general, were aired via an already hostile press.This is unfair, and dangerous, for it is a testament to the judges’ independence that nobody really knows how they will rule. They have seats and stage directions, but the words will be entirely their own. The attorney general complained that the high court rendered Brexit itself a footnote. That is indeed how the supreme court should view the week ahead, for the stakes are now so much higher than Brexit.As they rule, one hopes their words will demonstrate the true position. The independent judiciary is far from being the people’s enemy. It is – in fact – the people’s protector: our truest friend.• This article was amended on 5 December 2016 to correct the date of Sir Edward Coke’s 1610 high court judgment on the king’s prerogativeTheresa May has said the UK must not “turn our back” on the human rights abuses of foreign countries as she prepares to court Gulf states over a post-Brexit trade deal on a trip to Bahrain.The prime minister has been urged by campaigners not to set aside human rights concerns in pursuit of a potentially lucrative free-trade arrangement with Middle-Eastern countries.But May, who will become the first British leader and the first woman to attend the annual gathering of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) annual summit, said on Sunday that the UK must seek to “transform the way we do business” with the region.“As the UK leaves the EU, we should seize the opportunity to forge a new trade arrangement between the UK and the Gulf,” she said. “This could transform the way we do business and lock in a new level of prosperity for our people.”She added: “There will be some people in the UK who say we shouldn’t seek stronger trade and security ties with these countries because of their record on human rights. But we don’t uphold our values and human rights by turning our back on this issue. We achieve far more by stepping up, engaging with these countries and working with them.”Liam Fox, the international trade secretary, and many Conservative MPs believe a trade deal with the Gulf could be one of the first the UK can seal post-Brexit. But the GCC member states – Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar – may demand visa-free travel in return.The largest political party in Bahrain has been banned from the summit in Manama and both Bahrain and Saudi Arabia have been heavily criticised for their bombing campaign in the Yemen civil war.In a letter sent to May and published on Sunday, groups including Human Rights Watch, Reprieve and the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy, said: “The Bahraini authorities’ orchestrated attack on the rights to free expression, assembly and association has seriously undermined the prospects of a political solution to Bahrain’s domestic unrest.“If your government is serious about its commitment to encouraging reform and dialogue, you should use this influence to press the government of Bahrain to put an immediate stop to this repression.”Critics such as Amnesty International claim that UK engagement in Bahrain, such as helping to train its judiciary and giving advice about a police complaints ombudsman, has not led to real change, but instead has become a PR fig leaf.Despite having a free trade agreement with the European free trade area, the Gulf states have failed to strike a trade deal with the EU and talks with Brussels have in effect been on ice since 2008.In 2015, British exports to the GCC were £22bn, higher than UK exports to China and more than double those to India.May’s visit will coincide with an initiative by MPs to give UK authorities the power to seize assets of dictators and human rights abusers who buy luxury property in Britain to conceal their wealth.A group of backbenchers are seeking to amend the criminal finances bill and to introduce a clause targeting those guilty of abusing human rights outside Britain. It would allow officials and groups such as Amnesty International to apply for an order freezing perpetrators’ UK assets.The two-day GCC summit is likely to discuss whether it should form a tighter economic Gulf union, including a single market, single currency and customs union modelled on the EU.Both Saudi Arabia and Bahrain have been pressing the idea of a Gulf Union since 2012, arguing that world insecurity, including the threat posed by Iran, makes the case for forming a large, more unified bloc. Huge democratic and social obstacles lie in front of the project, including concerns about loss of national sovereignty.UK security and economic ties with Bahrain have been especially close and King Hamad of Bahrain extended the invitation to May, when he visited Downing Street in October. Prince Charles also visited Bahrain last month, along with Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, where he opened a wing of the new Royal Navy base, the construction of which has been funded by the King of Bahrain. During her visit the Duchess of Cornwall raised the issue of women’s rights and domestic violence, setting a bar for the prime minister.But in a letter sent to May and published on Sunday the rights groups, including Human Rights Watch, Reprieve and the Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy (BIRD), claim: “The Bahraini authorities’ orchestrated attack on the rights to free expression, assembly and association, has seriously undermined the prospects of a political solution to Bahrain’s domestic unrest.“If your government is serious about its commitment to encouraging reform and dialogue, you should use this influence to press the government of Bahrain to put an immediate stop to this repression.”In particular, the groups urge the prime minister to call for the release of arrested human rights defender Nabeel Rajab who has been held in solitary confinement in police custody since June 2016. Rajab is facing up to 15 years in prison on charges of insulting a neighbouring state, spreading rumours in wartime and insulting a statutory body. These charges relate to his criticism of the humanitarian cost of the war in Yemen, in which Bahrain is a participant, and for his documentation of torture in Bahrain’s Central Jau Prison. He faces another charge of defaming the state after he wrote a letter to the New York Times in September 2016.Sheikh Ali Salman, the Shia leader of the largest opposition party, has been jailed for nine years.The human rights abuses in Bahrain are a specific British concern, as the UK government has provided technical assistance since 2012 to help implement police and judicial reform.The UK helped to set up two bodies – the Ombudsman of the Ministry of Interior and the Special Investigations Unit within the Public Prosecution Office, both of which receive training and capacity building support from the UK. Both were established in 2012 in the wake of the Bahraini government’s brutal crackdown on protests the previous year.The foreign secretary Boris Johnson speaking on the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show again insisted he was concerned about the Saudi-led bombing campaign in Yemen, saying he had spoken to the Saudi foreign minister about the issue only this weekend.But Johnson said he believed the Saudi campaign did not represent a serious risk of war crimes violations and added that the UK was not involved in helping Saudi Arabia to set specific bomb targets.Letters: When we boast of ‘justice of the people, by the people and for the people’ it is the magistrates who enable thatYour account of the continuing implosion of the magistrates courts system (Cuts and low morale trigger exodus of magistrates, 30 November) should be heeded urgently by the government and society generally.It is not just the court closures (more than 10% already this year) and the disillusion which underlies an accelerating resignation of magistrates, but the profound impact on our civic culture. Unpaid justices of the peace, let us not forget, constitute the backbone of the criminal justice system, handling 90% of court cases (but costing only 1% of the courts and tribunals system’s budget). When we boast of “justice of the people, by the people and for the people”, it is the magistrates who enable that.Further, loss of local courts means less willingness of citizens to come forward as witnesses (we are shortly to have but a single magistrates court in Suffolk). And local newspaper reporting of cases, which used to be a considerable deterrent to crime, has largely dried up. The loss of invaluable local knowledge by what were local presiding magistrates, and the declining “ownership” by local people of their courts and the justice system, are yet more blows to active citizenship and pride in community.I sense that few in London understand much of all this. Thus a system widely admired and emulated is expiring, largely unnoticed.Andrew PhillipsLiberal Democrat, House of Lords• Having resigned as a magistrate six months ago, I would like to add some other factors discussed in your report.Cuts to legal aid mean the majority of defendants now appear unrepresented. This leads to defendants either having to defend themselves, a task for which few are well equipped, or to plead guilty when they had a good case to make. Most people would prefer to plead guilty to avoid the £500 trial costs, and in many cases justice is not done. A lawyer would have taken a few moments to advise either a guilty or not guilty plea. On occasions I had to play the role of defence solicitor, asking questions of witnesses that a lawyer should have been asking.The CPS is also under financial pressure to reduce hearings. This leads to lower-level charges being brought, for example in assault, to get a guilty plea and avoid a trial. The police are increasingly deploying fixed-penalty notices. Offences that once would have been brought to court, such as lesser public order incidents, are now dealt with like a speeding ticket. This asks a defendant to accept responsibility at a time when they may not be thinking clearly enough to make decisions. It may be cheap, but is it justice?Cuts and privatisation of the probation service had led to a diminution of both their reporting to the court and in their ability to supervise and rehabilitate offenders. Reports that 12 years ago were full and written are now brief verbal reports based on a short interview. Finally, the state of our prisons is such that I felt increasingly unwilling to send people to prison, knowing that short-term prison sentences are ineffective in cutting crime.Most people who come before magistrates are poor. Yet the basic disposal in these courts is the fine. Fining poor people is not only immoral and cruel but ineffective.Nigel ReynoldsMirfield, West Yorkshire• As one of the many who resigned from the magistracy last year, after 15 years’ service, I was not surprised to read that more and more justices of the peace (JPs) are resigning. While one can understand the need for the judicial system to have appropriate rules and consistency for the administration of justice across the country, the restructuring, centralising and bureaucratisation of the magistracy seems to have done more harm than good.The magistracy has a long and distinguished history of more than 650 years. One of its fundamental principles is that justice should be accessible and deliverable locally, by magistrates drawn from, and representative of, the local community that they serve. The rot started with the abolition of the local magistrates courts committees, followed by the closure of local courthouses and the establishment of so-called “centres of excellence”, where a specific courthouse in an area deals exclusively with one type of offending, such as domestic violence.These “reforms”, coupled with reduced court resources, increased restrictions on JPs’ flexibility to use a commonsense approach in applying sentencing guidelines in the light of local communities’ circumstances and the nature of offending, and the introduction of the mandatory victim surcharge (which is just another form of taxation), are simply nails in the coffin.It will surely not be long before local justice is dead and buried and everything is done online and by video link to “improve the experience of court users”. Since all criminal cases commence in magistrates courts, presumably the successive layers of the criminal court system above them will eventually suffer the same sort of technologically-based fate.Successive ministers heading the Ministry of Justice have repeatedly told the magistracy about how much it is valued and what a critical role it has in the judicial system. Unfortunately, there is precious little evidence in support of such reassurance.Paul FaupelSomersham, Cambridgeshire• Apart from the “exodus” of magistrates, I can identify another reason why the courts system is suffering a shortage of JPs. At the beginning of this year, my wife stood down from the magistracy after serving for 32 years. At the time of her resignation, she was the longest-serving magistrate in Leicestershire. She stood down because she had to, not because she wanted to. She had reached the age of 70, at which point all JPs are required to retire. Would not one answer to the shortage of magistrates be to abolish this arbitrary and inflexible retirement age and allow them to continue beyond 70? It seems bizarre, when fewer new recruits are coming forward, to allow this drain of talent and experience.Colin MarshLeicester• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersIt is correct that “the government has already announced a plan to recruit 2,500 extra prison officers” (Deal raises hopes of end to prisons crisis, 2 December), but that will still leave the service 4,500 short of the staffing level it had four years ago. I’m awaiting a reply to a written question I have tabled seeking clarification of how many more staff will have to be appointed to replace the considerable number expected to leave the service in the next five years, believed to be in the region of 5,500.Jeremy BeechamShadow justice minister, House of Lords• While agreeing with the rightness of not putting injured armed services personnel and their families through months/years of litigation (Combat related compensation could be raised, 2 December), could I additionally suggest there be some mechanism to estimate these costs before a decision to go to war is made. People are not machines.Hazel AndersonAbergavenny, Monmouthshire• Andrew Davies (‘I can’t control myself’, G2, 30 November) is quoted as saying of the catchphrase “You might very well think that; I couldn’t possibly comment”, “I was pleased to discover that line wasn’t Dobbs, it was me”. That’s odd, because I’m reading House of Cards at the moment (Harper, 2015), and on page 99 Urquhart says: “You might say that, Mattie. I couldn’t possibly comment.”Raia BrowningOxford• My husband died a year ago. I still recycle the Sport section without reading it (Letters, 29 November) with a twinge of sadness.Lesley BarnesGreenford, Middlesex• Re your article (Daily Mail sale ‘can’t be ruled out’, 2 December), I don’t suppose if we all clubbed together…Sheila HutchinsTregony, Cornwall• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersThe supreme court judges who will decide whether the government has the right to trigger article 50 without a parliamentary vote have been disgracefully vilified, according to the lead claimant in the case.Gina Miller, whose dramatic victory in the high court led to accusations that she and the judiciary were trying to thwart the will of the people, also claimed newspaper coverage had incited violence against her.Speaking to the Guardian before the first day of the government’s appeal against the decision, she said she could no longer travel on public transport, work in her office, or even spend a normal weekend with her family.But she was most exercised about fresh attacks on the judges before the trial has begun.“I think it is such a dangerous road to be going down to be attacking the judges and their integrity and their independence,” she added, arguing that they had a right and duty to operate independently of politicians and the media. “They are being vilified and it is totally disgraceful.”Miller’s comments come as the attorney general, Jeremy Wright QC, prepares to assert the government’s authority to trigger Brexit and its supremacy over parliament in international affairs.One of the most significant constitutional cases ever to be heard at the supreme court, starting on Monday, could also strain the UK’s devolution settlement as the Scottish and Welsh governments weigh in behind Miller.With the most senior law officers in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland all taking part in proceedings, the government’s ability to push through far-reaching political changes that affect the rights of UK citizens in the devolved administrations without consulting parliament will also be challenged.Miller criticised the coverage leading up to the case, which has included an article from the Daily Mail naming each of the judges and outlining their views, marital status, incomes and the cost of their family homes.The article was headed: “11 unaccountable individuals will consider a case that could thwart the will of the majority on Brexit. The Mail makes no apology for revealing their views – and many have links to Europe.”The coverage follows the newspaper’s controversial front page after the high court ruling in which it branded the three judges who made the decision “enemies of the people”.Miller said she had received a letter from a man who said his elderly German mother, who had fled the Nazis, had told him the article had sent “shivers down her back” because it was so reminiscent of an Adolf Hitler claim in the 1930s.Miller said she had been taken aback by the personal threats she had received as a result of taking the case.“I don’t go anywhere – it has been a complete poisoned chalice,” she said, adding that she had made formal complaints about articles and comments attached to them.“It is a crime to incite violence against someone,” she said, adding that politicians were also slow to criticise the attacks.She said that newspaper guidelines did not allow journalists to write about people being “foreign-born” as they did about her, adding that she was a UK citizen from birth.“You don’t see ‘foreign-born Boris Johnson’,” she added, calling it “disgraceful”.But Miller said she had no regrets because of the scale of support she had received including hundreds of messages from people who had experienced hate crime on the street.“I’ve had stories of people speaking another language at a bus stop and being spat on and kicked – it’s horrifying.”Miller argued that the case was not about stopping Brexit, but simply ensuring that a precedent was not set under which the government could bypass parliament on any issue it chose.She also said she was baffled that the government had taken the case to the supreme court, because that had allowed the Scottish and Welsh governments to raise the devolution settlement. They had added unnecessary “twists and turns”, she said.Miller said the key was that Britain did not have a written constitution so triggering article 50 without a parliamentary vote would set a dangerous precedent. “We would be undoing 400 years of democracy and sovereignty if the government were allowed to use this royal prerogative,” she said.It came as a lawyer representing the second claimant, Deir Dos Santos – who voted for Brexit, called for calm ahead of the hearing, warning that security guards had been called in because of the threat.David Greene, a solicitor with Edwin Coe LLP, who represents Dos Santos, said: “It is a sad day when space needs to be made at the highest civil court for security guards for parties and party anonymity is required to protect litigants seeking their legitimate right to bring this matter to court.“The Santos and Miller claim is and has always been about the process for exit from the EU. No more no less. Many see it as an attempt to forestall the exit but Mr Santos voted for Brexit and supports that goal. “He and we call for calm ahead of the hearing and the decision ... Neither the parties, including my client, nor judges, are the enemies of the people. The court process and an independent judiciary are the hallmark of a democracy. It would be a sad day indeed when an executive can ride roughshod over the judiciary, portrayed as anti-democratic. To the contrary, we should be celebrating the court process and the rule of law.” A senior government legal source said their approach would be to stress the wider constitutional importance of the case, which could have an impact on the use of the royal prerogative in future matters of foreign affairs and defence. It is understood ministers felt the first hearings had been framed too much by the claimants going first, but the order will be reversed in the appeal, giving the government the opportunity to shape its case in a different way while making essentially the same argument.The legal source said the government would have been unlikely to defend the case so vigorously if it was just about one parliamentary vote on triggering article 50, which ministers are confident they would win.However, there is a strong feeling about the point of principle that the royal prerogative should be preserved for such decisions to prevent future parliamentary votes about every single change involving international treaties.Ministers are already considering the possibilities for legislation to preserve the royal prerogative if the ruling goes against the government, meaning the executive would much more frequently have to consult parliament on international affairs.Both the Welsh and Scottish governments will argue that the earlier high court judgment, which said that only parliament had the power to trigger article 50, should be upheld. The counsel general for Wales, Mick Antoniw, said: “While Brexit will happen, the UK government cannot trigger it by overriding the British constitution. We heard a lot about ‘taking back control’ during the referendum campaign. Ignoring the governance arrangements of the UK is not a good start to that process.“Leaving the EU will lead to significant changes to the devolution settlement in Wales. Only the UK parliament can make those changes, which should be with the agreement of the national assembly for Wales. The UK government does not have the power to short-circuit this important mechanism for dialogue between the democratically elected national assembly for Wales and the UK parliament by using the prerogative in this way.”Most legal opinion is convinced that since the government has not changed its main line of reasoning, it will lose in the supreme court, where 11 justices will consider the case. Prof Michael Zander QC said last week that ministers could be defeated 11-0.However, Trevor Tayleur, associate professor at the University of Law, argued that the government would be much better placed to make its arguments this time around.He said the key argument would be that the 1972 European Communities Act had not created new laws but simply acted as a channel to bring European rights into the UK.He said the government losing would only delay article 50, rather than stop it, but argued that it would show “that the courts are willing to become more assertive in their relationship with the executive”.These are not easy days to be a feminist in America. The film industry, as well as other progressives in American society, are still reeling over the election of a man who admits to having sexually assaulted women, knowingly using his celebrity to exploit them. Over the last several days a video surfaced (thank you, Elle) from a 2013 interview with the Academy-Award-winning Italian director Bernardo Bertolucci, in which he talks about how he and Marlon Brando conspired to film a rape scene involving butter with the actress Maria Schneider on the set of the Last Tango in Paris, a film that was nominated for two Academy Awards and many other accolades.It’s important to note that Schneider, who died in 2011, told the Daily Mail in an interview way back in 2007 that she “felt humiliated and, to be honest, I felt a little raped, both by Marlon and by Bertolucci”. Although the rape scene was simulated, stories differ as to what Schneider was told in advance of the shoot. What is not in doubt is that a 19-year-old was blindsided by a bunch of older men who, according to Bertolucci, “wanted her reaction as a girl, not as an actress”.This woman said she was “a little bit raped” almost a decade ago yet there was no response, no outcry, like there was this weekend. The common theme is that we continue to disbelieve women who are assaulted. It took over 50 women to come forward for the world to believe that Bill Cosby might have been sexually assaulting women for decades. People (even our best and most feminist actresses) still have no problem working with Roman Polanski or Woody Allen, and others whom the world knows have multiple issues with women. And, by the way, Bertolucci was one of the signers of a 2009 petition demanding that Polanski be released from Switzerland while the US was trying to extradite him.It took Bertolucci admitting to facilitating the rape scene and saying that he “felt guilt but not regret” over what he did for people to believe Schneider, who unfortunately is no longer here to realise the benefits of his confession. Neither is Brando, who according to the reports was also traumatised by what happened. If you read what happened to Schneider after making the film, the suicide attempts and drug problems which were attributed at the time to the onslaught of fame, in hindsight we can see that this woman had PTSD (something that is common with people who have suffered from rape and other traumas) because she had to cover up her own violation and it tortured her for the rest of her life.The fact that Bertolucci has no “regret” over the scene – because I guess he thought in a warped and unacceptable way that she wouldn’t be able to act like she was being violated if she knew it was coming – belies a complete lack of responsibility. Say “I was wrong and I shouldn’t have done it”. Own it. You made a career as a result of this film, off the back of a woman whom you conspired to mislead for your own interests. She was a 19-year-old actress and you could – and should – have trusted her to do her job on that scene, just like you trusted her to do in other scenes. Maybe you didn’t tell her because she would have said no, and you didn’t want to deal with that?It would be a different story if this sad tale of Maria Schneider were an isolated incident in the film community – but it’s not. The so-called progressive community of Hollywood hides behind its liberal values while paying men more, not hiring women in equal numbers, sexualising women, kicking women out when they are no longer “fuckable” and, yes, raping them. Rose McGowan and Tippi Hedren are two women actors who have been vocal about their own sexual assaults.Rape is used as a device in TV and films with such regularity that we are almost immune to it. It is used over and over again in one of the most contentious movies of this awards season, Elle. For those who haven’t seen it, Isabelle Huppert’s character is raped multiple times in the film. There have been a variety of differing opinions related to the “grey area” of whether her character is complicit with her rape. Huppert is no Schneider in this piece. She knew exactly what she was getting into and is winning accolades for the film; she won a Gotham Award last week.For me there is no grey area. Rape is rape. The stats suggest that between 90-98% of rape survivors tell the truth, yet rape is a felony where the victim is often disbelieved and in turn the conviction rate is absurdly low. When any movie tries to create nuance over an issue that is an epidemic in our culture, we all need to stand up. Movies are not just movies. They are touchstones, reflections of our culture of where we are, of who we all want to be.• This article was amended on 7December 2016 to remove the impression that the rape scene in Last Tango in Paris was not simulated.Something very strange is going on. The chairman of the Equality and Human Rights Commission feels he must tell employers it is OK to celebrate Christmas, and that this will not offend unbelievers. The prime minister announces in parliament that of course people should be able to speak freely about their religious convictions. A thinktank argues that there should be a duty of “reasonable accommodation” to religious belief. All these are symptoms of a deep unease and confusion about the role of Christianity in British life.Britain is a country with an established church in England and another national church in Scotland, a secular ruling class, and a population largely indifferent to distinctively Christian beliefs and overwhelmingly reluctant to go to church, which displays a growing hostility to the notion of “religion” at all. There are also significant religious minorities, primarily Muslim, who have their own arguments with secularism as well as with Christianity.Some churches see their control of schools as a way back towards relevance, and the government is tempted by the idea that Christian-based schooling produces better results than the purely secular, even though the best research suggests that faith works in practice simply as a proxy for selection on the basis of class and parental wealth.Much of the noise is based around the tendentious claim that conservative Christians who are prevented from discriminating against gay people are thereby discriminated against. The argument is hardly convincing. Although there were important issues of free speech involved in the case of Ashers bakery in Belfast, and in some other recent cases that did not come to court, Christians are not being persecuted if they are prevented from exercising their beliefs in ways that harm others. Neither are the followers of any other religion.These prohibitions are not purely the imposition of secular law on religious believers. They are also the imposition of one kind of religious belief on another. There are people motivated by equally sincere and (theologically speaking) equally well-argued religious convictions on both sides of all these debates.What is more, the conservative Christian case is fundamentally compromised when it is pitched in terms of “religious” freedom rather than what is actually meant, which is that the law of the land should follow specifically Christian principles. Religion is notoriously hard to define, as is secularism. Deciding which kinds of belief deserve special protection even if none are to be treated as theologically true turns out to be very complicated. Unfortunately it is also necessary. It is impossible to construct a nation or any community without shared moral values and practices, and surprisingly difficult to decide, as it were, from first principles, how to move these values beyond platitudes and into action. There is in some secularist discussions an unwarranted assumption that all real disagreement is political, whereas religious opinions are distinguished by being either platitudinous or false. In fact they can be inextricably tangled, and the religious aspect can make political disputes much harder to resolve.And here the Christian critique has something to offer the rest of the country. There is a long tradition of religious thought about the development of virtues and values. The Christian version derives ultimately from Socrates and Aristotle, but those philosophers thought virtue was entirely compatible with slavery and infanticide, so it has been quite heavily modified since then. The central insight is that both individuals and societies, or social groups, develop their values by living them. Moral questions cannot be answered entirely by reasoning: we discover what kind of creatures we are by living; we develop virtues, like vices, by practising them. A compassionate society is one that treats its members compassionately, not one that makes speeches about the need to do so.More subtly, the values of a society are developed and maintained by its institutions. These need not be branches of the state. In fact it’s essential that many of them aren’t. Trade unions, food banks, football leagues, even reading groups all qualify, but many will always be religious. It would be stupid and self-destructive to make such groups feel useless and unwanted. The nervousness over Christmas, or even over expressing religious belief, is an absurd expression of a real void at the heart of soulless technocracy.My brother Sir Mota Singh, who has died aged 86, was the first ethnic minority judge in England when he was appointed in 1982. He forsook the traditional judge’s wig for a turban when sitting at Southwark crown court, London, where he served for more than 20 years.He was born in Nairobi, Kenya, the eldest of seven children – he had five brothers and a sister – of Dalip Singh Matharu, a garage proprietor, and his wife, Harnam. Aged 16 Mota was forced to assume responsibility for the family when his father was fatally wounded while defending a woman from an attack.Academically gifted, he was encouraged by his teachers to complete his education, despite being the family breadwinner. He took a clerical position with a firm of advocates in Nairobi and then enrolled with Lincoln’s Inn, London, as a foreign student.In 1953, accompanied by his wife, Swaran, and young daughter, he set sail from Mombasa for London to complete his bar exams. He continued to work during the day, as a clerk at the Indian high commission.He returned to Kenya in 1955 and began to practise at the bar. He soon established himself as one of the country’s leading advocates and was often instructed in proceedings involving the Kenyan government. In 1962 he was the first non-European advocate to be appointed secretary of the Law Society of Kenya.Despite the prospect of a bright legal career in Nairobi, he emigrated to the UK in 1965, determined to practise at the English bar. Soon the scale of his challenge became clear. After six months of failed attempts to obtain a tenancy in chambers, he was compelled to seek alternative employment and accepted an offer to be in-house legal adviser to a national property company. He thrived, and eventually secured a tenancy at 1 Mitre Court, Middle Temple, to begin practising at the bar.Mota became a specialist in landlord and tenant disputes, and the counsel of choice for leading property companies, but his first brief, from his brother Manmohan Singh, a solicitor, was to represent a client on a drink-driving charge, which he successfully defended alongside his brother. The image of two Sikh lawyers in tailored suits and crisply starched white turbans captured the media’s imagination at the time.In 1968 Mota was appointed as a member of the Race Relations Board. He took silk in 1976 and three years later was appointed recorder; then a crown court judge in 1982. At Southwark crown court he was one of four judges nominated by the lord chancellor to try serious fraud cases.A devout Sikh, he would rise at two each morning to begin his daily prayer routine and yoga exercises. He also served as a trustee of charitable organisations including Barnado’s, the Windsor Leadership Trust and the Democracy Forum. In 2012 he was knighted for services to the legal profession and to charity.He is survived by Swaran and their three children, Pam, Satinder and Jaswinder.My female friends and colleagues, online and off, have been bleakly unimpressed this weekend by a recent display of bland and worldly impenitence from Bernardo Bertolucci about how he created the “butter” scene in the 1972 film Last Tango in Paris, starring Marlon Brando and Maria Schneider. But they are still more unimpressed about the resulting liberal horror, as if this was a bizarre and scandalous one-off, and not simply yet another detail in the colossal architecture of male power in the movies and everywhere else.Hollywood’s Captain America star Chris Evans tweeted: “This is beyond disgusting. I feel rage.” Jessica Chastain tweeted: “To all the people that love this film - you’re watching a 19-year-old get raped by a 48-year-old man. The director planned her attack. I feel sick.”I felt this nausea because like everyone else, in my naivety, I had assumed that Bertolucci had discussed and rehearsed this scene with Brando and Schneider on equal terms, in advance of shooting. This was the shocking moment when Brando’s character Paul brutally penetrates Schneider’s character Jeanne using a stick of butter.But in recently-surfaced video of an onstage event in 2013, Bertolucci announced that he did not tell Maria Schneider what was going to happen before the take; he and Brando had secretly planned it without her knowledge because the director wanted her humiliation to be real. Two powerful men, aged 32 and 48, had arranged for her to be assaulted. For Maria Schneider herself, it was something more akin to actual physical assault: “I felt humiliated and to be honest, I felt a little raped.” Bertolucci’s Wikipedia page is now getting hammered to this effect.I myself last wrote about the film in 2007, when Last Tango in Paris was re-released in the UK. I had always believed that the scene was only 50 percent of the film’s meaning - and that the point was that Paul wanted Jeanne to do the same thing back to him: to be painfully penetrated with her fingers, and that his humiliation resided further in being old – that remark about his prostate. In the fictional world of the movie there is a kind of consent, albeit of a loaded kind.Well, we now know that there was no consent in real life. Whatever balancing moments existed in the story, Bertolucci certainly never discussed anything with Schneider without telling Brando. It was all the other way around. The power lay with the famous director and famous actor. As Chastain says, we are left with disgust.Hollywood history is full of these iceberg-tips of abuse peeping out. Everyone knows about the big cases: the conviction and exile of Roman Polanski, the (denied and unproven) accusation of Woody Allen. But there is also a vast unacknowledged history of normalised abuse - virtually every female star and many male stars have endured a casting-couch assault, although the MO has of course been offscreen. In his effrontery, Bertolucci put his abuse in front of the camera and like so many men of that era, maintains a tacit claim of permissive liberation and declines to see what was wrong.Amy Berg’s documentary, An Open Secret, has disclosed the range of child abuse in the film industry. Corey Haim and Todd Bridges have revealed they were assaulted as children, a toxic and hateful pattern of power and manipulation which is part of that same continuum of abuse which reaches to the adult world.To speak out takes courage. In 1937, a dancer named Patricia Douglas accused studio executive David Ross of rape at a party given by MGM chief Louis B Mayer. Instead of staying silent, she filed a complaint in the LA County district attorney’s office. And a brutal campaign to discredit her was then created by studio fixer Eddie Mannix. Witnesses were bribed to change their stories. The male establishment of the law, politics and the press ganged up and Douglas’s career was crushed although her courage in taking on the system has since made her a heroine.More recently, Thandie Newton has described her own outrage at this abuse happening as part of the panoply of Hollywood power - just as it did with Schneider. A certain male director was sneeringly boasting to her about having seen a lewd audition videotape another director had made Newton do when she was a struggling young actor.In 2016, as in 1972, and 1937, there are plenty of disgusting men in the movie industry who don’t see what the problem is. Now they are being forced to confront the poison they have created. Dangerous drivers who kill while using a mobile phone at the wheel could face life sentences under plans unveiled by ministers, bringing the punishment in line with those charged with manslaughter.Motorists who cause death by speeding or street racing, or through careless driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, could also be handed life sentences if proposals to increase the 14-year limit for the offence are adopted.Under the current penalty, people are usually released after seven years. In 2015, the average sentence for drivers who killed was 45.6 months, or less than four years.The justice minister Sam Gyimah said the maximum sentence should rise to a life term.“Killer drivers ruin lives,” he said. “Their actions cause immeasurable pain to families, who must endure tragic, unnecessary losses. While [it is] impossible to compensate for the death of a loved one, we are determined to make sure the punishment fits the crime.“My message is clear: if you drive dangerously and kill on our roads, you could face a life sentence.”Last year, 122 people were convicted of causing death by dangerous driving, including those who were speeding, street racing and using a mobile phone. A further 21 people were convicted of causing death by careless driving while under the influence.A Ministry of Justice consultation will seek views on whether the current maximum penalty available to the courts should be increased.As well as plans to increase the maximum sentence of causing death by dangerous driving, or careless driving, to a life term, the proposals include creating a new offence of causing serious injury by careless driving, which would carry a maximum sentence of three years.The MoJ will also consider increasing the minimum driving bans for those convicted of causing death on the roads.Road safety campaigners welcomed the proposals, but said ministers should go further in punishing what the RAC described as an “epidemic” of motorists texting, checking messages and making calls while driving.Gary Rae, the campaigns director for road safety charity Brake, said: “This is a vindication of our efforts, and those of victims’ families, calling for change through our roads to justice campaign. For too long, the justice system has treated them as second-class citizens.”But he said there were concerns that the charge of “careless” driving remained. “Some of the strongest feedback we have received from the families we work with is that there is nothing careless about taking someone else’s life,” he said.“We also want clarification on whether the current automatic 50% discount, where convicted drivers serve only half their jail term, will still apply for these new, proposed sentences.”Last week, a lorry driver was sentenced to six years in prison for killing two men when he ploughed into them four seconds after using Facebook.Keith Mees, 49, had been sending a message to his girlfriend saying he was splitting up with her when he drove into a line of traffic, crushing Marian Olteanu, 35, and Ion Calin, 42, to death. He had also been streaming YouTube videos and chatting on the phone.The Department for Transport has increased the punishment for those using a mobile at the wheel.The fine rose from £100 to £200 and penalty points doubled from three to six, so those found to be offending on more than one occasion will reach the 12-point threshold for a ban.Letters: When we boast of ‘justice of the people, by the people and for the people’ it is the magistrates who enable thatIt’s an October afternoon at the Royal Courts of Justice, central London. In a high-ceilinged, stone-floored corridor, barristers in black gowns and white wigs flick through fat files. A trio of dark-suited solicitors talk in low tones. The word “redacted” drifts up out of their conversation.A few yards away, there’s a room with a very different picture. A man in a worn leather jacket is getting help filling in a form. Another, in his 50s, is on the phone trying to get a copy of a court order. This is the Personal Support Unit (PSU), a charity that helps litigants in person (LIPs), people going to court without lawyers or barristers. PSU volunteers explain procedures and forms, but don’t give legal advice. As an LIP, reading up on the law and presenting your case to a judge is down to you.The stress of resorting to the law can be so great that, win or lose, most people are glad to walk away when it’s done. But not always. Some LIPs come back for more and carry on fighting their corner when most would have given up long ago. They believe that if only they could find the right judge, the right loophole in the law or the right bit of evidence, they will get justice. And then, almost without noticing it, the law has become their life.“I’ve been a litigant in person for more than 20 years,” says 71-year- old Maurice Kirk. “My cases have taken over my life. They’ve cost me my family, my health and my qualifications as a veterinary surgeon. Twenty years – I never thought it would last this long.”Kirk, a qualified pilot who recently flew across Africa in a vintage air rally, says he’s currently fighting “about 15” court cases. Twelve are part of his 24-year dispute with South Wales police. He admits he has become obsessive about taking the police to court. “But I won’t give up because I know I’m right,” he says. The legal battles stem from “a campaign of harassment and bullying” which he says started in 1992, when he moved to Barry in the Vale of Glamorgan to open a veterinary practice.“I was constantly stopped for motoring offences,” he says. He admits there were also high-speed car chases and a fine for resisting a police officer. Stung by what he saw as continued injustice, following previous run-ins with the police in Guernsey, Kirk started to go to court to get his convictions overturned.“I was forced to be a litigant in person because the lawyers I employed proved thoroughly disappointing,” he says.Kirk blamed South Wales police when he was removed from the register of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (RCVS) in 2002 for unprofessional behaviour. The RCVS cited his 11 convictions among the reasons for striking him off. Kirk applied to go back on the RCVS register several times, always representing himself at hearings. They turned him down.He changed tactics. “I thought if I could prove the police had treated me badly, I might be able to go back on the register as a vet,” he says. He decided to sue South Wales police for damages, but preparations were interrupted when he was charged with the illegal possession and sale of a Lewis machine gun.Kirk, who already had convictions for assault, spent eight months on remand until a Cardiff Crown Court trial in 2010. He defended himself. The jury found him not guilty.The damages case came to court in 2013. “I’d been preparing for this since the 90s,” says Kirk. “There were a lot of witnesses to find and interview. I hired a private investigator to trace some of them.”Kirk represented himself in 47 days of hearings. He was allowed damages for two of 33 incidents, but the judge ruled there was no conspiracy. Kirk is preparing an appeal. South Wales police said: “It would be inappropriate to comment” as proceedings were continuing.”“I used to be terrified of going to court,” says Elizabeth Watson, “but I’ve had no option. Like most litigants in person I was forced into it.” Bournemouth company director Watson is fighting the Bank of Scotland for her home. The bank says she owes them more than £345,000. She says she doesn’t owe them a penny. “Something like this – it comes in and it invades your life,” says Watson. “It dominates the landscape. It’s like a rotting corpse.”What Watson calls her “life hijack” started in 2002 when she put money into an investment scheme run by Leicester accountants Dobb White. She says she was told it had the backing of senior people at the Bank of Scotland. The bank lent her £345,000 to invest in the scheme, but it was a fraud. Investors in the UK and US lost over $200m – around £165m at current rates. The Bank of Scotland came after Watson – and other investors – for their money.Watson had been an LIP before. “They were silly things, though. A dry cleaner ruined a cream suit I had, so I took her to court for compensation.” Watson won these early cases. But going up against a bank with a full legal team has been very different. “There’s no equality of arms. It feels like a rigged game,” she says. Watson has now been to court “over 20 times”, with the case lasting eight years so far. The court file – in one judge’s estimation – runs to over 1,000 pages. “At the beginning I felt very bewildered.”Although she has sometimes had legal help, Watson has done most of the work herself. She’s taken it all the way to the court of appeal and the supreme court. The bank won possession of her house in July 2015. Her attempt to appeal against that decision was dismissed in May this year. The judge criticised her for the way she’d run her case and gave her a limited civil restraint order. This stops her from taking any further action in the case without first getting permission from a judge. The Bank of Scotland is currently trying to make her bankrupt. Bankruptcy can effectively stop someone from pursuing civil action.A Bank of Scotland spokesman said the bank “at no point provided advice or recommendations to customers about the Dobb White scheme”. He added: “Repossession is always a last resort,” and that the bank hoped, “we could still work with Mr and Mrs Watson to agree a resolution to this issue.”Peter Oakes has sued – or attempted to sue – the police, council officials and other public servants. He says he’s been to court “about 20 times” over the past 18 years.“I’ve never won a case,” says 72-year-old Oakes, who lives in Crewe. “But I’ve had to keep going. My experience has unglued everything I believed in. Once you fall foul of an official body, it seems all the others conspire against you.”Oakes says his battles with officialdom started in the United States in 1991 when he owned a company selling aquarium supplies. A dispute over money with a client in Florida led to Oakes being arrested by local police and eventually found guilty on a charge of criminal trespass. He was fined $400.Oakes insists he was innocent of any wrongdoing, so it’s understandable he felt unfairly treated by the US legal system. But he was also convinced he’d been let down by the British authorities.“The Foreign Office did nothing,” he says. “They didn’t lift a finger in any shape or form to help me.”Oakes’s feelings of injustice drove him to read up on the law. He hit on a clause in the Criminal Justice Act 1948, which he believed meant that British officials could be prosecuted for not carrying out their duties abroad.“I reported [a Foreign Office official in Florida] to Cheshire police for misconduct in a public office,” he says. The police declined to investigate, so Oakes sued them for “failing to carry out their duties”. A judge threw the case out.In protest, Oakes refused to pay the portion of his council tax that went to police services. His local authority, Crewe and Nantwich (now part of Cheshire East council), took him to court. He represented himself.“My defence was under the Trade Descriptions Act. I wasn’t getting the services from the police, so I wasn’t paying the money,” he says.Magistrates ordered him to pay up. He refused. Representing himself at a later hearing, he attempted a citizen’s arrest on a council official. That led to conviction for assault and two months in prison. The local authority eventually bankrupted him in 2010 for unpaid council tax and court costs. Oakes and his wife Jean had to remortgage their house to raise cash to annul the bankruptcy. “She doesn’t usually get involved, but she’s always been very supportive,” says Oakes.Other fallout from his court cases include more convictions, for assault and harassment, and another two months in jail – as well as the belief that “the establishment is corrupt”. Oakes has had some sympathy from “the establishment” during his battles. A judge once told him that he “was satisfied that he has suffered cruelly over a number of years”.“When all this started, people said to me, ‘You’re paranoid,’” says Oakes. “I’m not bloody paranoid. But when officials get something wrong, they don’t put their hands up and say they’re sorry, they just come back at you.”Oakes now helps other LIPs with their cases. He’s also writing a book about his experiences. The Foreign Office said they did not comment on details of consular cases or individual members of staff. Cheshire police said they could not comment as they only hold records of civil cases for six years.When she was sentenced to seven years for fraud, Julia McClaren found the civil law becoming a large part of her life .The former theatre producer went to court from prison when a cattery that had been looking after her cats, Arthur and Bella, gave them away without her permission.“I was furious,” says McClaren. “I don’t have kids; I’ve never wanted kids. Those cats are my family. They mean more to me than anything.”Arthur and Bella had been living with McClaren’s 83-year-old mother while she had been serving her sentence, but she’d been admitted to hospital after she fell and broke a hip. A social worker then lodged the two animals in a local cattery. But when McClaren sent a friend to pick them up, the cattery wouldn’t let her take them.“They tried to make out that I’d breached their contract by not paying the bills,” says McClaren. “I wrote to them and pointed out that they’d never sent me any bills. And then they’d stopped my authorised representative from collecting them.”Then McClaren heard the cattery had given away Arthur and Bella to Susan  Watkins, one of their employees.“They’d helped themselves to my property,” says McClaren. “And they thought they could do that because I was in prison. I just wanted them to be forced to admit that they should never have done it.”McClaren’s first stop was the library at HMP Downview, a women’s prison in  Sutton, Surrey.She started to read up on contract law. “There were only about three books on the subject. And they were all way out of date. But the principles hadn’t changed. I looked at it all and thought to myself: ‘This is the perfect way of sticking it to them.’“Cats are considered property under the law,” explains McClaren, who had been to court as a litigant in person before this case. “As property, they are owned by somebody. I believed that the cattery had breached my rights by giving the cats – my property – away to this woman.”McClaren drafted detailed paperwork setting out why she thought the cattery was in the wrong and then started proceedings.At court – which McClaren was taken to and from in a prison van – the two sides came to an agreement. The cats could stay with Susan Watkins for the moment, but McClaren would make arrangements for a friend to collect them.However, Watkins refused to give the cats up, so when McClaren was finally released from prison nine months later, she went back to court. “At the hearing, Watkins went on that I was a bad person and that the cats would suffer if they were moved,” says McClaren. “I just pointed out that they belonged to me, not her.”The judge agreed. He ordered that Arthur and Bella had to be handed over the following day – in the car park of a local supermarket.“I have to say there was a rather petty sense of self-satisfaction of sticking one up to them,” says McClaren. “But I’d made my point. Just because someone is in jail, it doesn’t mean that they lose their property or their rights.”Some names have been changedComments by the director of the film Last Tango in Paris, Bernardo Bertolucci, that he conspired with Marlon Brando to film a graphic rape scene without the consent of 19-year-old actor Maria Schneider have prompted outrage in Hollywood.Speaking in a video from 2013 that surfaced recently, Bertolucci said he and Brando came up with the idea to shoot the infamous scene depicting assault, in which Brando’s character uses a stick of butter to anally rape his lover, played by Schneider.“The sequence of the butter is an idea that I had with Marlon in the morning before shooting,” Bertulocci said at an event held at La Cinémathèque Française in Paris in 2013. He said he “wanted her reaction as a girl, not as an actress”.“I think she hated me and also Marlon because we didn’t tell her that there was that detail of the butter used as lubricant,” he said.Although he admitted that not telling her the plan was “horrible”, Bertolucci said he didn’t regret how he decided to direct the scene.Last Tango in Paris – which was made in 1972 and tells the story of a man who enters into an anonymous affair after his wife takes her own life – shocked audiences when it was released due to its graphic depictions of sex and rape and is still considered to be controversial. At the time of filming Brando was 48, while Schneider was 19.Schneider, who went on to have serious drug addiction problems and depression, said in 2007 that she felt humiliated and “a little raped”. During the interview Schneider confirmed the scene was simulated and there was no real sex.She said she was told about the contents of the scene shortly before the shoot and that it wasn’t in the original script.“I was so angry, she said. “I should have called my agent or had my lawyer come to the set because you can’t force someone to do something that isn’t in the script, but at the time, I didn’t know that,” she told the Daily Mail.“Marlon said to me: ‘Maria, don’t worry, it’s just a movie’.”“After the scene, Marlon didn’t console me or apologise. Thankfully, there was just one take,” she said. Schneider died from cancer in 2011.Bertolucci’s comments prompted outrage on social media, with celebrities among those calling for the director to be stripped of his awards or to be prosecuted.Jessica Chastain said the comments made her feel sick.Evan Rachel Wood retweeted Chastain’s comments, adding, “I second that. This is heartbreaking and outrageous. The 2 of them are very sick individuals to think that was ok.”Chris Evans wrote: “Wow. I will never look at this film, Bertolucci or Brando the same way again. This is beyond disgusting. I feel rage,” which prompted a response from Anna Kendrick.“Ms Schneider stated this several years ago. I used to get eye-rolls when I brought it up to people (aka dudes),” Kendrick tweeted. Evans replied that the men should be in jail.Australian Associated Press contributed to this reportDangerous drivers who kill are set to face life sentences under plans put forward by ministers. Those causing death by speeding, street racing or while using a mobile phone will face the same sentences as people charged with manslaughter.Offenders who cause death by careless driving while under the influence of drink or drugs could also be handed life sentences – an increase on the current 14-year upper limit.“Killer drivers ruin lives,” said justice minister Sam Gyimah. “Their actions cause immeasurable pain to families, who must endure tragic, unnecessary losses. While impossible to compensate for the death of a loved one, we are determined to make sure the punishment fits the crime.”A Ministry of Justice consultation will seek views on whether the current maximum penalties available to the courts should be increased. The department said that the new measures would see custodial sentences for causing death by careless or dangerous driving increase from an average of 45.8 months in 2015.Proposals include increasing the maximum sentence for causing death by either dangerous or by careless driving from 14 years to life, and creating a new offence of causing serious injury by careless driving, which would carry a maximum sentence of three years. There are also proposals to increase the minimum driving bans for those convicted of causing death.The department says the consultation delivers on the government’s pledge to consider the sentencing powers available to the courts for the most serious driving offences. In 2015, 122 people were sentenced for causing death by dangerous driving, with a further 21 convicted of causing death by careless driving while under the influence.This week, the supreme court of the United Kingdom will hear the government’s article 50 appeal in what promises, with its live TV coverage and internet streaming, to be the court’s most contentious and closely followed case since its establishment seven years ago.At that time, there were many critics of the new court, which replaced the law lords as the country’s highest court. Chief among them was the then law lord Lord Neuberger, who dismissed the court as the creation of a “last-minute decision over a glass of whisky”. He feared that the British constitution was being dangerously “muck[ed] around” and noted that there was a pronounced risk of “judges arrogating to themselves greater power than they have at the moment”.David Neuberger, Baron Neuberger of Abbotsbury, appears to have since overcome his doubts about the supreme court, at least to the extent of becoming, four years ago, its president.The sovereignty of parliament is the issue at the heart of the article 50 case. Both sides lay claim, in different ways, to be defending it. The government insists that, as the parliamentary executive, acting on the will of people as expressed in the referendum on European Union membership, it has the right to invoke article 50 without a parliamentary debate and vote.The government’s opponents, namely Gina Miller, Deir Tozetti Dos Santos and others, have argued that, as the referendum is not binding under existing law, the government is legally obliged to ratify the result with a vote in parliament.Only parliament, they maintain, can remove the rights that parliament enshrined in the 1972 European Communities Act.The high court agreed with Miller and co and, as a result, the three judges involved in that decision found themselves denounced on the front page of the Daily Mail as “enemies of the people” and as “judicial activists” by Ukip.Suddenly, the British judiciary was in the dock, with public confidence in the constitutional role of our senior judges brought into question. Although the supreme court’s job is simply to interpret and pass judgment on the law, its president will be keen to demonstrate the disinterested position of his court.And to combat any notion of a restrictive view, for the first time in its short history, all 11 justices of the supreme court will hear an appeal. The maximum is usually nine. The justices are not, as Neuberger has attested, a study in social diversity – they’re all white, nine out of 11 were privately educated and 10 out of 11 are men.Many legal experts are predicting an unambiguous government loss. Michael Zander, emeritus professor of law at the London School of Economics, wrote recently in the legal magazine Counsel: “The government could be looking at losing 11-0.”Unlike in the US, where the politics of its supreme court justices are well known and, indeed, usually one of the reasons for their appointment, British justices maintain a far more neutral profile. Some of the 11, for example the deputy president, Lady Hale, and Lord Kerr, have a reputation for being staunch defenders of European human rights legislation. Others, such as Lord Sumption, have cautioned against the expansion of judicial power both in domestic and European courts.But it’s not possible to draw a clear and definitive line between “liberals” and “conservatives”, let alone “friends” and “enemies” of the “people”. In any case, 11 justices is probably too large a number to fit on a Daily Mail front page. So if the government’s case is rejected, negative attention may focus on Neuberger.It already has. Charles Moore, a former editor of the Daily Telegraph, has called on Neuberger (along with Hale) to recuse himself on the grounds that he is not impartial. Moore drew attention to pro-European tweets by Neuberger’s wife, Angela Holdsworth, in which she derided the referendum as “mad and bad” and retweeted a Remain campaign message: “It seems unlikely that a PM could trigger Article 50 without Parliament’s approval.”The supreme court’s conduct guide reminds justices “to bear in mind that political activity by a close member of a justice’s family might raise concern in a particular case about the judge’s own impartiality”. Neuberger’s spokesman responded to suggestions that Holdsworth’s tweets raised exactly that concern by noting that the president doesn’t confuse political views with points of law.A better contender for the flouting of guidelines, perhaps, was Hale’s intervention. She suggested during a lecture in Malaysia that if the government lost its appeal, it might need “a comprehensive replacement” for the 1972 act, a move that would push back the government’s March deadline for enacting article 50 by several months.Neuberger appeared to reprimand his deputy when he told a reporter that in general, “judges shouldn’t discuss cases we’re about to hear”. However, he stood by her fitness to sit. “We have taken an oath to decide cases according to the law,” he explained, “and if we don’t do that we’re not worthy of the name of judges.”Neuberger has held that name for 26 years. He comes from a family of scientists and rabbis. His father was professor of chemical pathology at St Mary’s hospital in Paddington, London, and his uncle was a well-known rabbi.He has two brothers who are professors of, respectively, medicine and immunology and his other brother, a professor of finance, is married to Julia Neuberger, the crossbench peer and first British female rabbi to have her own synagogue.Neuberger studied chemistry at Oxford, though he has said that he was “not very good at science”.His choice, he has said, was to go into finance or law and he decided on finance because law involved too many exams. He joined the merchant bank NM Rothschild, only to realise that he was “even less good at finance than at science”.And so in 1974, aged 26, after four attempts at pupillage, he was called to the bar. An expert in property law, he took silk in 1987, became a recorder three years later and a high court judge in 1996. His ascendancy through the senior judiciary was vertiginous, becoming a lord justice of appeal in 2004 and then, the day after his 59th birthday in 2007, a law lord.Law lords tend to rival the Chinese politburo in the gerontocracy stakes, so still in his 50s, Neuberger was by some way the youngest. Two years later, he became master of the rolls, the second most senior judge in England and Wales.He has known previous moments in the spotlight. He was wrongly said to have supported the right of witnesses and defendants to wear veils when giving evidence, but actually holds the opposite view. In 2004, when a court of appeal judge, Neuberger reached a minority decision – in opposition to his fellow judges – disallowing evidence obtained by torture in third countries where the UK was not complicit in gaining the evidence.If that stance identified him as a liberal, other decisions might suggest otherwise; in 2010, for example, he ruled that peace protesters should be evicted from Parliament Square. To look back over Neuberger’s rulings, his decisions are not easily filed under distinct political labels. Although judges must be free to decide on the law as it stands, Neuberger believes, and knows, that they must always remain subordinate to the government. After all, if the government doesn’t like a legal ruling it can draw up new legislation and change the law.That’s the defining difference between the US and British systems: in America, it’s prohibitively difficult to overturn a supreme court decision. The benefit of the lower stakes in Britain is that we can afford to appoint our supreme court justices for their legal expertise rather than their political loyalty.It’s not Neuberger’s or any other supreme court or high court judge’s fault that the government decided to hold a referendum without clarifying the legal obligations of a Leave vote. Nor is it their fault that Miller decided to test the government’s legal position. That’s the nature of the law.Given the legal merits of Miller’s case, and the government’s reliance on ancient and obscure prerogative powers, it would have taken a particularly slanted political position for the high court to have sided with the government. And the supreme court finds itself facing the same delicate situation.Its judgment is not due until the new year. If, as expected, it backs the high court decision, Neuberger can look forward to a bucketload of opprobrium poured over his head on the front pages of several Brexit-supporting newspapers. But he can also look forward to retirement next year.He’s already announced that he’s hanging up his wig in the summer – or he would be if he wore one. In the supreme court, justices’ wigs are deemed to be like political opinions: surplus to requirements.Born David Edmond Neuberger, 10 January 1948, in London, to Albert and Lilian Neuberger. He went to Westminster School and Christ Church, Oxford. Married to Angela Holdsworth; three children.Best of times His legal career has been one long upswing, so there are any number of highlights, but becoming the country’s youngest law lord may well stand out above the rest.Worst of times Going by newspaper coverage, it could be next month (January), if the supreme court upholds the high court’s decision on Brexit.What he says “A white, male, public-school judge presiding in a trial of an unemployed traveller from eastern Europe accused of assaulting or robbing a white, female, public-school woman will, I hope, always be unbiased. However, he should always think to himself what his subconscious may be thinking or how it may be causing him to act.”What others say “After reading Lady Neuberger’s thoughts, one naturally wonders about Lord Neuberger’s. And that is exactly what ought not to happen when judges find themselves embroiled in a politically controversial case.” Charles MooreCourts are ‘creaking’ as budget cuts and closures bite, according to some of those who work in themHis Royal Highness Emere Godwin Bebe Okpabi, the paramount ruler and hereditary king of the Ogale community in the oil-rich Niger delta, is ready to explode.After nearly a week of sittting quietly in top hat and regal chains in the obscure technology and construction court in London listening to Shell, the Anglo-Dutch oil company, argue why 45,000 impoverished Ogalean farmers should not be allowed to sue the company in Britain for historical pollution, he says he feels “betrayed and saddened … I dispute everything they have said. To listen to Shell saying they have not been not responsible for the pollution in Ogale has been dreadful.”King Emere wants to sue Shell in London for not cleaning up pollution because he fears his community may never get justice in Nigeria. “You can never, never defeat Shell in a Nigerian court. A case can go on for very many years. You can hardly get a judgment against [an oil company] in Nigeria. Shell is Nigeria and Nigeria is Shell.”The stakes are high, he says. If the London judge hearing the preliminary arguments finds for the king then, in around one year’s time, Shell will have to defend itself in the British courts. The result could be a massive clean-up of Ogale, possibly millions of dollars’ in damages and other polluted communities bringing their cases to Britain.The judge, who has nearly 1,000 pages of reports, submissions and statements from the two sides to consider will rule in the early new year. But if Shell wins, says the king, then the case will have to be heard in Nigeria where they may be able to avoid justice for decades because cases can get kicked between the appeal and supreme courts for many years.“We are desperate people looking for justice. We know we cannot get justice there. A community near us got a huge judgment against Shell but the appeals have taken 10 years so far. In one case it has taken a community 32 years so far to get justice.”Shell’s lawyers respond that the Nigerian justice system has been reformed and speeded up and that its Nigerian subsidiary, SPDC, should be held responsible for any pollution rather than the parent company, Shell International. They claim that Ogale has also been heavily affected by theft, pipeline sabotage and illegal refining rather than failure of infrastructure.The king and and his legal team from a UK law firm, Leigh Day, argue that a precedent was set last year when Zambian villagers were allowed to take an Indian company to court in London over water pollution by a subsidiary because the Zambian legal system was deeply flawed.That pollution has occurred in Ogale from old Shell and Nigerian oil company pipelines is not disputed. Official records say there have been more than 40 major spills in the small Ogale kingdom over the years, of which 23 have been since 2011.In 2011 the UN environment programme (Unep) published a scientific study of pollution in Ogoniland which said it found oil spills happening with “alarming regularity” in Ogale, including groundwater contamination that is more than 4,500 times Nigerian recommended levels. Water samples taken in 2010 from three metres below ground were found to be contaminated with benzene and other chemicals.King Emere offers a bottle of water taken recently, he says, from an Ogale borehole. The liquid smells powerfully of oil and tastes foul. “This is what we must drink. It is getting worse. We are getting strange illnesses. Our boys and girls cannot have children. We have strange deaths,” he says.But the king says he is most saddened because he has witnessed the complete breakdown of trust between the company and his community. “I was a child of the 60s and 70s. We had a good relationship with the company. They would come with their Land Rovers. As little boys we would push them just to touch the Shell Land Rover. We used to go under the gas flare at the manifold to see the big beetles. We had no electricity. Our only lighting was the flare. We played there. When I was at primary school we used to run into the bush to get fruits, beautiful fruits. Now we have nothing.“We did not know about pollution then. There were a lot of spills. We would see them and think nothing of them. We never knew that Shell was planting a time-bomb. We gradually realised things were getting bad in the 1980s and 1990s.“Have we done well out of the partnership with Shell? No. They have dumped us. I got saddened as I sat in the court and watched them trying to create a distance between themselves and the consequences of pollution. I saw them trying to push the blame on to someone else.“The truth is that Royal Dutch Shell has been responsible for the damage in my community. The same people we loved are killing us now.”It’s the stuff of TV drama: schoolgirls befriend a German prisoner of war being held in Scotland during the second world war. After learning that he had never seen moving pictures, they smuggle him out of the camp for the day and take him to the cinema so he can watch a film for the first time.That kindness is behind the reason Heinrich Steinmeyer decided to leave almost £400,000 in his will to the people of Comrie in Perthshire.The former Waffen SS soldier was captured in France in 1944 when he was 19 and held at the PoW camp at Cultybraggan near Comrie. Classified as a category C prisoner – or hardline Nazi – Steinmeyer was detained there until June 1945 before being moved to another unit in Caithness and then a camp in Fife before eventually being released in 1948.He returned to Comrie regularly after being freed and made life-long friendships in the area. The German died in 2014, aged 90, and his ashes were scattered in the hills above the camp.Two years later, his wish to leave £384,000 to the village has been recognised and has been donated to the village’s local community trust to be spent on local development for the elderly. The Courier newspaper said part of Steinmeyer’s will reads: “I would like to express my gratitude to the people of Scotland for the kindness and generosity that I have experienced in Scotland during my imprisonment of war and hereafter.”One of the friends he made was George Carson, who died just two weeks before the former soldier.His son, also called George, told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “It sounds like an unbelievable story but it’s absolutely true. My mother and her friends, all school children at Morrison’s academy in Crieff, made friends with Heinrich through the fence of the Cultybraggan camp.“During these conversations they discovered that Heinrich had never seen a moving picture, so they went up with their push bikes one morning. One of the girls had taken her brother’s school uniform,” Carson said. “They smuggled him out of the camp through the chain-link fence and into the cinema where he saw his very first film. He was absolutely blown away by the whole experience.”Carson said he met Steinmeyer a couple of times and described him as a “wonderful man … He had meetings with the Comrie Development Trust in 2008 and asked them to manage his estate on his death. He was quite specific in his will that the money should only be used on the elderly in the village,” Carson said. “This is his thanks for the kindness shown to him at the point of his life where he was at his lowest and he just wants to say thank you to everybody.”The funds have now been transferred to a Heinrich Steinmeyer Legacy Fund and a consultation has begun to determine how best to spend his legacy.Business gets off to a brisk start as the three magistrates take their seats on the bench in court three of Luton magistrates court.Within an hour a 50-year-old local businessman, found slumped at the wheel of his stationary company vehicle in a layby, has been dispatched with £1,036 to pay in fine and costs and a six-month driving ban. An out-of-work drink-driver, arrested at 2am for driving with no lights, leaves with £235 to pay in fine and costs, and a 12-month disqualification. He can cut that to nine months by paying to attend a drink-drive referral scheme, at a cost of up to £250.This is typical fare for the 17,000 justices of the peace in England and Wales, and both cases are dealt with swiftly by the bench, equipped with iPads and sentencing guidelines and aided by a qualified legal clerk, or legal adviser.To the casual observer, there is no outward sign of an overburdened, creaking system, ground down by budget cuts and court closures, which, according to the Magistrates Association, is leading to disaffected magistrates resigning in “considerable’’ numbers.During a day spent at Luton, however, the frustrations of court users emerge. For a start, this magistrates court now covers the whole of Bedfordshire, the old Bedford magistrates court having been mothballed. “Any defendant from Bedford or surrounding villages now needs to travel to Luton, which is a 20-mile journey, and relatively difficult to manage, especially if you are on benefits,” says Stephen Halloran, director at the law firm Lawtons.Vinod Jumnoodoo, director at another local firm, JSP Law Ltd, suspects this has contributed to a rising number of “no-shows” – of which there were four in court three when the Guardian visited on Thursday. “A train leaving Bedford at 9.05am will get to Luton at 9.19am. That train ticket will cost £15.70. Imagine stumping up for that if you’re on benefits?” says Jumnoodoo. Add to that the costs in court time of arresting and processing the absconder.It is not a local problem. Forty-seven magistrates courts closed their doors between March and September under government proposals to reduce the £500m annual cost of the courts estate, and a further 45 are due to shut by September 2017, meaning one-fifth of all courts in England and Wales will have disappeared in 19 months.Whether high travel costs are a factor or not, there is a brief lull for the magistrates in court three one hour into their day. The usher is juggling her list to funnel through those pleading guilty in timely fashion, but someone is late, and others are waiting to see a duty solicitor.Jo Cestaro and Dawn McKnight, from Lawton, are on the duty solicitors’ rota this day, as is James Bailey-Woodward from JSP Law. Legal aid cuts have meant more unrepresented defendants, which has meant more people seeing duty solicitors at the court on their first appearances.Cestaro finds herself defending a 23-year-old man, who has pleaded guilty to driving while disqualified and without insurance. It is not his first such offence and he has racked up £5,000 in outstanding fines. He is unemployed, and it is a huge burden.One sitting magistrate, unconnected to Luton, has told the Guardian how demoralising it is to see defendants accruing fine on top of fine, with no hope of paying. More should be done, he believes, to encourage people facing driving offences to deal with it out of court. “In court fines are larger than if a person just filled in the paperwork. It is usually the poor who don’t have insurance, and the less well educated who don’t understand how to fill in the forms.”Cestaro’s disqualified driver seems a case in point. He has diagnosed depression, a terminally ill sister, family problems, a mountain of debt and no job. The magistrates call for a pre-sentencing probation report. “Do be frank and candid; it can only help you,” the chairman of the bench says as the defendant departs with a probation services officer for interview.Thirty minutes later, the probation report is read aloud. Magistrates decide on an eight-week prison sentence, suspended for 12 months, and 15 “RAR” – rehabilitation activity requirement – days. He is banned from driving for 25 months, and while there is no additional fine, he still must pay £200 – £85 prosecution costs and £115 victim surcharge, which can only be consolidated with his current fines.Once cases could be adjourned for three weeks for a pre-sentencing written probation report. Today, they can be completed almost instantly. It appears highly efficient. But there are fears that quality may suffer. “It is a very, very brief interview. The reports are becoming a tick-box pro forma, and are more scant than they used to be without a shadow of doubt,” says Jumnoodoo. Crown court cases take precedence, and magistrates quite often find probation reports not being prepared on time, says one JP, who does not sit at Luton.Cuts mean the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) is also stretched, say lawyers, leading to papers not being available either to defence solicitors or magistrates on time. Often there is only a case summary, drawn up by police, which when actual statements arrive, after delay, “bears no resemblance to reality”, says Jumnoodoo.Prosecutors are travelling further and being parachuted into courts they weren’t expecting to deal with, he adds: “Downtrodden prosecutors now are not too shy to simply state to the court: ‘I can’t deal with that file/ I haven’t read it.’”There is a sense that continuing cuts can lead to a dislocation nationwide between such courts and the communities they serve, with defendants, prosecutors and magistrates all travelling further, to courts rarely covered by their local newspapers.Back in court three, business goes on without too many apparent problems. Warrants for the arrests for the “no-shows” are issued. A 29-year-old unemployed man, accused of biting a police officer in the thigh while under arrest for brandishing his belt as a weapon outside McDonald’s and refusing a blood specimen test, receives an 18-week sentence suspended for 12 months, a driving ban and fines and compensation totalling £570. The 18-year-old he got into an altercation with, and who also brandished his belt, receives a 12-month community order, 150 hours’ community service, and £170 in costs. Both get a 7pm-7am curfew.But Bailey-Woodward from JSP Law, who is representing a woman accused of shoplifting, is forced to wait several hours for her papers to arrive, only to discover she is not, as assumed, pleading guilty, but entering a not guilty plea. A trial date is set for February.The aim, drummed into magistrates during their training, is not to clog the system. They are trained to adjourn only “in extraordinary circumstances”, says one Luton magistrate who has spent 26 years on the bench, and who does not wish to be named. “Some days you work solidly. Others, you wonder why you bothered to come. The number of times something or someone is missing, or people have sent the papers over too late, or not at all.” But he has great sympathy with the CPS staff, “who are under a lot of pressure”.One way courts can relieve that pressure is by “undercharging”, it is claimed. “Instead of GBH, you will get charged with an ABH. Instead of ABH you will get charged with an assault. Just to encourage people to plead to a lesser offence,” says Halloran.Overall, the number of people being processed and charged has “drastically dropped”, and volumes are down significantly, he adds, “and it cannot all be down to the work of the youth offending team. The reality is that the police/CPS, unless they have overwhelming evidence, won’t charge an offence or they will try to divert it, just to save money.”The system is “creaking” he says, and relies on the goodwill of those involved to keep the show on the road.Goodwill is there. It’s there in the form of the 33-year-old mother of two young children, now in her last days of training to become a magistrate at Luton. Juggling being a magistrate with her job and motherhood is not going to be easy. “The system is not set up for people who are younger and have these other commitments,” she says. However, she is determined.And despite his 26 years on the bench, the longstanding Luton JP remains committed. As an ex-headmaster, he laments the reduction in the number of youth courts at Luton, from two a week to just half a day a week. Here he felt he could make a real difference. Now the less serious youth offences never reach court, and the really serious cases are sent up to crown courts, which have greater sentencing powers, he says.But, he adds: “I’m still doing it. It is still worth doing. It is still working, but it is creaking”.The number of unpaid magistrates in England and Wales has declined steeply from 30,000 in 2006 to 17,500 today.Court closures, falling crime rates and a relative increase in the number of full-time district judges have all been blamed for the fall.But the main reason magistrates – also known as justices of the peace (JPs) – cite for resigning is the long distances they are forced to travel to court, which has broken the link between benches and their local communities.About 250 magistrates courts, youth courts and county courts have closed since 2010 as part of a coordinated cost-cutting drive. The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) argues that 95% of defendants should be able to reach their local court within an hour by car. Keeping to the speed limit, that implies many will be up to 70 miles away.Approximately 53% of magistrates are women and 89% are white. Many benches have no or few members from black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds. More than 86% are over the age of 50.Their sense of being undervalued has been sharpened by the belief that professional district judges are given the more interesting and complex cases.Malcolm Richardson, the national chairman of the Magistrates Association, told the Guardian: “A number of resigning magistrates cite issues such as court closures and overall dissatisfaction caused by the lack of respect with which they are treated by the system as core reasons for leaving. Some considerable talent and thousands of years’ experience are lost as a result.“Government needs to come up with a strategy for the magistracy and then start recruiting and use that opportunity to broaden the range of people sitting as magistrates. Contrary to popular belief, the magistracy is actually quite reflective of the demographics of England and Wales in ethnicity terms, but not age.”The Magistrates Association is encouraging more working-age people to join the bench in order to lower the average age of JPs.It has also argued for magistrates to be given greater sentencing powers, a request endorsed by the Commons’ justice select committee in the autumn which warned there was a need to tackle low morale in the service. The government has so far resisted extending the magistracy’s sentencing powers from a maximum of six months to 12 months for a single offence. Authority for it to do so already exists under section 154 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 but this has never been brought into force. Ministers and some civil rights groups fear it would lead to more offenders being sent to already overcrowded prisons.The Conservative MP Bob Neill, who chairs the justice select committee, said in October: “It is unfortunate that the government’s evident goodwill towards the magistracy has not yet been translated into any meaningful strategy for supporting and developing it within a changing criminal justice system. This needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency.“Although evidence does not indicate a universal problem, there is sufficient evidence of low morale within the magistracy to cause concern.”Penelope Gibbs, a former magistrate and director of the campaign group Transform Justice, said at the time: “Magistrates themselves have lighted on increased sentencing powers … as the answer to their problems. It would give magistrates courts more work, but it risks increasing prison numbers and decreasing the number of trials heard by juries. The government and the senior judiciary need to halt the downward drift in magistrate numbers and devise a strategy to save the magistracy, not enact one measure which may have perverse effects.”An MoJ spokesperson said: “The magistracy remains at the heart of our justice system, and we will consider the case for increasing their sentencing powers.“Closing underused and dilapidated court buildings will allow us to reinvest in the justice system and make the best use of technology.“This will improve access to justice and improve the experience for all court users, in particular vulnerable victims and witnesses.”Company investigated over allegations of bribery maintains anti-corruption agency misused its legal powersThe Rev Mike and the Rev Nicky-Sue Terry have the classic married couple’s habit of finishing each other’s sentences. But perhaps it’s unsurprising that they know each other’s minds so well. They are not just man and wife, but also two halves of a pioneering job-share within the Church of England, splitting the role of vicar for St Mary’s in the Hampshire village of Warsash between them.They take turns conducting services, he chairs parish council meetings, she runs the pastoral team, and vicarage life is divided according to individual strengths, although both try to take Fridays off. Mike, who previously served in the Royal Navy, likes long-term planning; Nicky-Sue says she prefers “to get into the detail of things, which … ” – she pauses, and Mike interjects – “drives me completely barmy”. Some parishioners in distress are drawn to her, some to him, but they try to make the relationship seamless. “We have a phrase we use,” says Mike, “which is: ‘We are the vicar, we are.’”And both are thrilled to have a way of working that suits them. Having entered the church late in life – Mike, now 60, met 54-year-old Nicky-Sue in 2007, when both were training for ordination – neither wanted to run a church full-time, and so when their bishop suggested an experimental job share, both were intrigued. “In a sense, this is the Church of England beginning to recognise that we can do things in a more flexible way, and can be responsive to a modern environment,” Mike adds. “It’s a very positive reflection on a changing world. And if the Church of England can do it, that says something.”Thirteen years after Tony Blair’s government pushed through the legal right to request flexible working amid squeals of protest, it feels as if the last bastions of traditional working practices are finally being stormed. Change is lapping at the highest reaches of the establishment; the armed forces, parliament and the judiciary.Next spring, a landmark report is due to be published exploring the feasibility of job-sharing for MPs, to encourage parents and disabled candidates into parliament. The Ministry of Defence is in the middle of a trial project, offering soldiers with young children the chance to defer deployment overseas or rejig chunks of leave to reduce their hours. The scheme will be opened to more service personnel from February.Two unnamed judges recently began the high court’s first ever job-share, and last week it emerged that future vacancies on the supreme court will be open to flexible applications in the hope of attracting female judges. (Currently the ratio is one woman to 11 men.)The next big leap in the story, says the Fawcett Society’s chief executive Sam Smethers, would be moving to a default assumption that every job can be made flexible in some way – early starts or finishes, home working, part-time work or job-sharing – unless there is good reason not to. But that means showing it can work even at the top, and in professions once stoutly resistant to change.“It’s about opening minds and realising that a lot of the way we do things is just because we’ve always done it that way,” she adds, “not because that’s the way it has to be done. In most jobs there is some prospect of flexible working.”The niggling question, however, is how firmly these painstaking gains for working parents are entrenched in workplace culture: there are fears that, in a potentially tougher economic climate post-Brexit, it might become too easy to roll back employment rights. This is why it is so intriguing that even professions granted exemption from the law are now voluntarily thinking the previously unthinkable.The single biggest reason for leaving the armed forces, according to the annual Armed Forces Continuous Attitude Survey, is the impact on family life – and it’s not just affecting women. There is growing concern about promising male officers leaving in their 30s and early 40s, just as experience becomes invaluable, because of the toll taken on marriages and children. It is this prospect of troops voting with their feet that has prompted a rethink of the rigid patterns of army life.If the role of military wives was once to stay at home raising children while their men were off at war, those days are long gone. Almost one in 10 soldiers is now female, many military spouses work, and too many struggle to fit that around their soldier’s long absences and unpredictable hours. In a recent survey for the Army Families Federation (AFF), which has campaigned for flexible working on forces families’ behalves, 39% of spouses said their partner couldn’t help with childcare even occasionally. (For soldiers not on active deployment, variable start times and other forms of flexibility may be be available, but the forces are exempt from the legal right to request).“You can’t rely on your soldier to finish at fixed times. They’re away a lot and the burden of the childcare absolutely falls on the spouses,” explains Louise Simpson, policy and research director at the AFF, and an army wife herself.“If you talk to an organisation like Recruit for Spouses, which helps military spouses return to work, they’re trying to place people who were in incredible jobs [before becoming] military spouses, who are now downsizing considerably and finding even that difficult. Employers look at their CVs and say: ‘Oh, we can’t have someone this highly qualified.’” Yet many spouses can’t afford, she says, not to work.Simpson praises the army’s current chief of general staff, General Sir Nick Carter, who personally backed the flexible working experiment last year by declaring there was “absolutely no reason” for not changing parade times on a base so that soldiers could do the school run. Tiny changes could, Simpson says, make a big difference.But the Ministry of Defence remains cautious about the impact on operational readiness to deploy. The trial will continue until at least 2019 before any final decision is taken.Meanwhile, the AFF argues that more could be done to spread the message that modern couples both work and need to share the domestic load. “We need to educate our command that this is the way most people operate now, so if every now and then a soldier wants to leave at 4pm to pick up the kids, they could,” says Simpson. But there is some private anxiety about the consequences of taking up the offer: one new mother Simpson talked to recently said her soldier husband wouldn’t take up the scheme because he worried that “it would be an end to the fast track”. For both civilian and military parents, the key may be making sure that flexibility goes right to the top of the tree.At first glance, judges make terrible candidates for part-time working, since the same judge must sit continuously through trials that can last weeks. But the crown court now has a handful of part-timers, working in blocks of several weeks on and several weeks off – and the supreme court’s cases are shorter and more predictable than criminal trials, which makes them potentially more amenable to part-timers if they were carefully matched to cases. A final decision has yet to be taken on what kind of hours will be accepted, but crucially, candidates won’t have to declare that they want to work flexibly unless they are short-listed, meaning their CVs should be sifted purely on merit.Since most supreme court justices are in their late 50s and 60s, the changes are unlikely to attract new mothers, but could suit someone seeking reduced hours because they are caring for an elderly parent, or to see teenagers through A-levels. And more than that, it sends a powerful signal through the system. “What we’re saying is that, actually, we appreciate people are looking to us to take the lead,” said a spokesman for the supreme court.What kind of boss denies women the legal right to maternity leave, requires them to commute hundreds of miles a week and calls them lazy if they complain? The answer, technically, is all of us. MPs are not legally employees, but servants of the people, and the people can be unforgiving bosses. Ironically, the law on working life is currently made by people whose working conditions would be illegal almost anywhere else.The Labour MP Rachel Reeves has just written a biography of the pioneering Labour minister Alice Bacon, Alice in Westminster, in which she reflects on how life has changed for female politicians since Alice’s election in 1945. “The hours have massively changed, the through-the-night sittings that existed in her day – the latest I’ve been there is maybe 1.30am,” says Reeves, who has two children under three years old. “There’s a nursery now, whereas when Alice was an MP very few women had children. There was a feeling you couldn’t have both. Those are choices that women are much less willing to make now.”But the flipside of afternoon and evening sittings was that some MPs in Alice’s day treated parliament as a part-time job, pursuing careers in law or the City during the day. Time could be interestingly elastic, if what you wanted was the freedom to make money, not the freedom to see your children.And while back then established MPs might have deigned to visit their constituency only once a year, the weekly shuttle back and forth is the bane of many modern political parents’ lives. Since there’s no way around the need to live in two places at once without breaking the constituency link, there is growing interest in job-sharing, with two candidates standing for parliament on one ticket and dividing the work between them.Two Green activists, Sarah Cope and Clare Phipps, brought an unsuccessful court case last year arguing they should be allowed to stand for parliament as a job-share, and this week the Green MP Caroline Lucas – who shares her own party’s leadership with Jonathan Bartley – once again backed the idea.But it remains controversial, dividing even those passionate about opening up parliament. Reeves thinks ministerial posts could be shared relatively easily, but worries about how an MP job-share would cope if its two halves disagreed over an unexpected issue, such as the vote on bombing Syria: “For me, that was an incredibly difficult decision. I had friends who politically I’m very close to who voted the other way. I’m not sure how you agree that in advance. Do you just say: ‘Well, it’s a Wednesday, so that’s Rachel’s day to vote?’ That doesn’t feel right. I personally think it’s incredibly difficult.”Nonetheless, two academics, Bristol University’s Prof Sarah Childs – author of a separate recent report on diversifying the Commons, currently being studied by a working group of MPs – and Birkbeck University’s Dr Rosie Campbell, are examining the practical challenges for a report due next spring.The urgent priority for many in Westminster, however, remains dragging arrangements for new parents into the 21st century. Ministers have been able to take maternity leave since 2001, but new mothers still have no formal right to time off constituency work. Most muddle through, reliant on the goodwill of whips to excuse them from voting at Westminster, while braced for criticism over their temporarily patchy presence. Reeves recalls signing casework shortly after her second child was born last June, and resuming constituency surgeries within six weeks. Despite being signed off Westminster votes for four months, she turned up to vote on Syria and tax credit cuts. “I was never completely off,” she says, before adding hastily, “but I’m sure that’s true for people in other jobs as well.”Why don’t MPs complain more about conditions most parents wouldn’t tolerate? Reeves snorts incredulously at the question: “Because you get no sympathy!” Besides, she says, there’s flexibility in the school holidays when MPs work from their constituencies. “I don’t think we have loads to complain about. We’re a bit like self-employed people, who can’t take maternity leave because it’s going to cost you.”The snail’s pace of reform in parliament undoubtedly reflects private fears of a backlash from voters still smarting over the expenses scandal. But Childs remains optimistic about the prospects for change, arguing that it is in nobody’s interest if MPs “have to rely on good relations with the whips” to get time off to recover from childbirth.She is struck, too, by the way the wave of SNP MPs elected in 2015 are starting to change the dynamic. Used to the more modern Scottish parliament, which keeps something closer to office hours, she says they are much more willing to question stuffier traditions: “They’re able to make comparisons, and they look around and say: ‘Why are we doing this the way we do?’”And as the two vicars of St Mary’s found out, that can be a life-changing question. “When we started, it was an experiment; we had no sense that we would do what we do now,” says Nicky-Sue, who thinks a job share might never have occurred to them without their bishop’s prompting. “But there’s something very symbolic about it, a married couple sharing a post like this. It’s perhaps a challenging concept. But it’s a beautiful one.”The Dorchester’s leaked list of grooming rules for female staff could open up the luxury hotel to lawsuits filed by current and former employees, critics have said.A set of grooming demands was this week reported to have been emailed by hotel managers to employees after the five-star establishment received complaints about the general hygiene of its staff.According to the leak, women were asked not to turn up for work with oily skin, bad breath or garish makeup. They were also encouraged to shave their legs, ensure their fingernails were manicured and avoid body odour.Kiran Daurka, an employment lawyer at Leigh Day, said dress codes were lawful when they related directly to the requirements of a job, but could be challenged when they encouraged the objectification of staff.“I would have concerns where a policy seemingly objectifies women by asking them to look a certain way which has no bearing on their ability to do a job,” she told the Guardian. “For example, hair removal is clearly about objectification and sexualisation, as there is some ideal of what a woman should look like.“This may also unlawfully offend the religious or other beliefs of women whose belief system does not allow the removal of hair.“A dress code that treats women less favourably than men is discriminatory. But even where a policy is applied to all, it may still particularly disadvantage women, and that disadvantage would need to be objectively justified.”An unnamed employee told the Daily Mail: “It’s disgusting. This list is like something out of the dark ages and downright offensive. It’s not as though you choose to have oily skin, and a lot of women, especially teenagers, cannot help it – no facial wash or moisturiser in the world can control that.“The women are all pretty livid but worry that if they complain – or rebel and turn up to work with chipped, dirty nails and hairy legs, for example – they’ll be sacked on the spot.”Philip Landau, an employment lawyer from Landau Law, said there were many reasons why an employer may want to have a dress code or appearance policy, such as to communicate a professional and corporate image. However, “an employer’s policy must not be discriminatory in respect of the protected characteristics in the 2010 Equality Act for age, disability, gender reassignment, religion or belief, sex, or sexual orientation”, he said.“Accordingly, any dress code or appearance policy should apply to both men and women equally. The codes do not have to be identical, as there will clearly be different requirements for male staff, but it does have to amount to similar standards. It is not clear what the equivalent grooming policy is for male staff at the Dorchester.“A grooming policy should also be reasonable and proportionate in nature, with particular reference to the work that is being carried out. If it isn’t, and you are dismissed for failing to comply with the code, you may have a claim for direct discrimination on the grounds of sex if there has been a detriment for one gender over the other. You may also have a claim for unfair dismissal.”Landau said employers needed to “tread carefully” in case they were seen to indirectly discriminate against an employee. The requirement not to display any excess body hair, including on the face, could discriminate against those with conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), of which one of the main symptoms is excess androgen – high levels of “male hormones” in the body.“This may cause physical signs, such as excess facial or body hair, and therefore a blanket policy of no facial hair could amount to indirect discrimination on the grounds of disability and sex,” he said.Ewa Jasiewicz, a union organiser for hotel workers in London, said she believed the stipulations left workers open to discrimination, especially if they were transgender or gender fluid. “Gender is a protected characteristic under the Equality Act and this includes gender presentation and reassignment,” Jasiewicz said.“Women workers at the Dorchester do not enjoy transparency on where their service charge goes and do not have fair tips or [a] living wage, but are expected to spend money on manicures? This beggars belief. This in my opinion is a form of paternalistic, sexist, gendered taxation on an already exploited and underpaid female workforce.”The Unite regional officer Dave Turnbull said: “People of different ethnic backgrounds may not be able to comply with the requirements due to their skin or hair type.“It is possible that there is an underlying race issue here, as we are often told by members that hotels do try to avoid having black people in front-of-house position and it could easily be interpreted that the Dorchester are trying to get female staff to conform to a certain type.“Also there are religions where the removal of facial hair may not be acceptable. There may be disability issues linked to this as well, for example skin conditions or allergies to certain types of makeup.”To apply these standards only to female staff would be clearly sexist, he said. “It treats women workers as if they are part of the product that is being sold by the hotel and can place staff at risk of sexual harassment and comments from customers who might view them as a commodity.”Workers in the Dorchester and other hotels were on low basic pay and often reliant on variable elements, such as tips or service charges, to top up their earnings, Turnbull said. “The cost of makeup, beauty treatments and compliance with dress code requirements can be extremely expensive and is never factored in by an additional allowance of any sort. Again, this could easily place employers at risk of claims of sex discrimination, as male employees are not expected to shoulder the same expenses.”An employee at another London hotel, who asked to remain anonymous, said she was subjected to similar rules. She told the Guardian her main issue was that female employees had to wear tight dresses, which was “unfair and impractical” for her waitressing job. It also opened her up to unwanted comments from colleagues and guests. “If I’m cleaning a table, male workers will say things like: ‘Oh, stay right there,’” she said.While the rules do not stipulate that the waitress must remove any facial hair, the 24-year-old, employed by a boutique hotel frequented by wealthy clients, said she had to wear skin-coloured tights rather than black ones, which meant having to shave her legs regularly, and that there was an expectation to look attractive. “We’re told that we have to dress as if we’re on our first date,” she said.Sam Smethers, the chief executive of the Fawcett Society, said it was completely unacceptable for any woman to be told what she should wear and how she should look. “Employers should concentrate on what enables people to do a good job and what drives productivity. This is 2016, not 1970; we need to see an end to this kind of objectification of women,” she said.The Dorchester said the rules were not emailed to all staff, but were provided to job applicants. The hotel’s general manager, Roland Fasel, said: “The Dorchester has a proud community of employees who uphold world-leading hospitality standards, including grooming, in line with many other brands.“All new applicants, both men and women, are sent a copy of our grooming standards in advance of interview.”Immigrants detained for months and even years by the federal government should have no right to a bond hearing to determine whether their detention is necessary or justified. That might seem like an extreme statement. It is. But it’s not coming from Donald Trump. That’s what lawyers for the Obama administration this week argued before the US supreme court in Jennings v Rodriguez.Non-citizens, including lawful permanent residents, are often locked up for lengthy periods in prison-like conditions while fighting deportation proceedings. That’s a result of a 1996 law, signed by President Bill Clinton, which made detention mandatory for a huge swath of immigrants convicted of crimes – even minor ones and even cases where an immigrant poses no public safety or flight risk.It’s a remarkable case that encapsulates the absurd brutality of contemporary immigration politics: so-called moderates like Clinton, George Bush and Barack Obama have built and defended a monstrously efficient deportation machine that will soon be handed over to a hardcore nativist.As of October, a record 40,000-plus immigrants, including many asylum seekers, were detained by the federal government, mostly in private facilities. That number that could grow much larger under Trump. The president-elect has pledged to orchestrate mass deportations and also promised to freeze federal hiring, which could make an already severely backlogged immigration court system grind to nearly a halt. It’s no surprise that private prison company stocks soared after Trump’s win.“If the president-elect means what he says on detention and means what he says on the hiring freeze, inevitably detention times are going to skyrocket,” said Michael Tan, a staff attorney with the ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project and one of the attorneys on the case.The Obama administration’s response is that immigrants can file habeas corpus petitions in federal court – a complicated and time-consuming process that would provide no due process for most immigrants subject to imprisonment by the federal government.The case before the supreme court is a class-action lawsuit represented by Alejandro Rodriguez, a lawful permanent resident brought to the United States as an infant whom the government sought to deport because of convictions for drug possession and “joyriding”. Rodriguez was imprisoned for more than three years with no bond hearing while he fought deportation – a fight he ultimately won.In fact, it is the very people detained for lengthy periods like Rodriguez who are most likely to win their cases and be allowed to remain in the US because they have substantive claims to make. Those without such claims are typically subject to rapid deportation.“The sad irony is the people who have the strongest claim to lawful status in the United States are the most likely to end up in detention for months or years without ever being able to see a judge and seek relief,” said Tan.Those detained for six months or longer, according to the ACLU, are five times more likely to win their case than the average immigration detainee.Though Trump has made brazen racism and xenophobia the centerpiece of his political persona, his policy agenda echoes that pursued by Obama: deporting those convicted of crimes. But the majority of those detained by immigration authorities for six months or longer, according to the ACLU, were convicted of crimes so minor that they carried a conviction of no longer than six months.The US court of appeals for the ninth circuit found that non-citizens like Rodriguez did have a right to a bond hearing every six months. The Obama administration disagreed and appealed to the supreme court.In the 2003 case Demore v Kim, the supreme court ruled in favor of the government’s power to detain non-citizens for a limited amount of time without a bond hearing – a period that the court found, based on information provided by the government, averaged roughly five months for those fighting their deportation before the Board of Immigration Appeals. The problem, the government conceded in an August letter to the court, is that that figure is bogus. In reality, the average detention time for such non-citizens was more than a year.The government, according to Scotusblog’s bloodless analysis, is in part relying on the 1953 case Shaughnessy v United States ex rel Mezei, which “denied judicial review to an immigrant held in indefinite detention based on secret evidence, an outcome next to impossible to square with modern constitutional law.”Trump has made it clear that he has little respect for constitutional rights. Obama’s dismal record will make it all the easier for the president-elect to shred them.What does a perpetrator of violence against women look like? For many, the question still evokes images of shadowy strangers pouncing in the dark or thuggish drunken husbands stumbling home from football matches – stereotypes challenged tirelessly by women’s organisations and campaigners, especially throughout the current 16 days of action against gender-based violence.In reality, women are statistically most likely to be assaulted by someone known to them, and domestic abuse can be, and is, also perpetrated by handsome middle-class professionals. Busting myths is therefore a crucial tool in the fight against a culture which relies on them. But for all these vital and urgent conversations about the true face of perpetrators, there is one that remains largely invisible in spite of both ubiquity and power: the state itself.Violence does not exist solely in the instant that blow meets body, but in the circumstances that facilitate it and the systems which excuse it. One needs only glance at violent crime statistics since 2009 to spot a sharp increase in violence affecting women, correlating neatly with the introduction of austerity measures in the same year which have since seen 34 women’s refuges close and 95% of women’s organisations facing a funding crisis. The subsequent diversion of the tampon tax into women’s charities, while widely hailed as a feminist victory, in fact achieved little more than imposing the financial burden of their own health and support services on to women, while men continue to enjoy state-funded “mainstream” care.Changes to the welfare system, too, illustrate at best a naivety around violence against women and at worst a complicity; for all the widely acknowledged flaws of universal credit, for example, little has been made of the stipulation to pay it only to one “head of household”, limiting the financial autonomy of women and gifting abusive partners ammunition by which to keep their victims hostage.If economic policy too accurately embodies its violent language of slashing and cutting, legislation around crime and justice delivers an almost laughable irony. In some cases, the very laws purportedly designed to protect women from violence can, in practice, enable it: the criminalisation of various activities relating to the sale of sex, for example, is universally opposed by sex worker-organising collectives, on the grounds that it limits their ability to work safely – for instance, in groups or designated zones – and without fear of violence from both clients and state agencies.When women do experience violence at the hands of a male perpetrator, as 1 in 4 UK women will in their lifetimes, a tangle of state systems and institutions make the path to justice anything but easy, despite the criminalisation of such violence in law. Cuts to legal aid, for instance, disproportionately affect women bringing claims of sexual violence and domestic abuse, and that’s if they haven’t already been put off by the degrading and painful experiences that women before them have legally faced in the UK justice system, or the country’s unrealistically low prosecution rate for gender-based violence.Women’s experience of such state-sanctioned violence does, of course, differ based on individual identities, and predictably those also marginalised elsewhere are both hardest hit and affected in unique ways: a lack of affordable housing trapping women in poverty in abusive relationships; black women living in fear of police brutality; trans women routinely placed into male prisons with little regard for their increased vulnerability to sexual violence and suicide there.In particular, refugee and migrant women remain especially at risk of state violence, in large part through their interactions with detention centres like Yarl’s Wood, where a protest tomorrow aims to oppose the inhumane treatment of detainees including the prevalence of sexual violence against women held in the facility. These are the findings that Theresa May, then home secretary, last year refused to disclose details of for fear of “prejudicing commercial interests” – a stark assertion of exactly where this government’s priorities lie when it comes to the safety of vulnerable women.Taken as a whole, then, the picture in the UK is one where women still face epidemic levels of violence, but lack the support of a state which at best enables and at worst perpetrates it. It’s time to move beyond an understanding of violence against women as a personal issue between individuals, and see it as a strategy built into our institutions and society in order to maintain a status quo where women – particularly the most marginalised – are subordinated.Politicians are good at talking the talk: “No woman should live in fear of violence and every girl should grow up knowing she is safe,” reads May’s foreword in the government’s Ending Violence Against Women and Girls strategy. But until her own actions and that of her government say otherwise, this noble vision remains far from realised.Company investigated over allegations of bribery maintains anti-corruption agency misused its legal powersScotland’s minimum age of criminal responsibility will be raised to 12 years, in line with UN standards, after the current minimum age of eight, the lowest in Europe, was labelled a “national embarrassment”.Mark McDonald, minister for childcare and early years, announced on Thursday afternoon that the Scottish government would bring forward legislation to raise the age by four years, calling the case for it “clear and compelling”.In a statement to Holyrood, McDonald told MSPs: “Having the lowest minimum age of criminal responsibility in Europe does not match with our progressive approach to youth justice and ambitions to give children the best start in life.”A recent consultation with police, prosecutors and victims’ groups found that 95% supported an increase to the age of 12 or above.In 2010, the Scottish government raised the age of criminal prosecution to 12, assuring that no one under that age could be prosecuted or sentenced in the criminal courts but would be dealt with through children’s hearings. However, those outcomes would still be added to children’s criminal records.McDonald said: “Raising the age of criminal responsibility will mean people no longer face potentially damaging and life-altering consequences, such as a criminal record, for events that took place when they were a young child.”He added that he recognised the need for safeguards in exceptional cases, and that police would still have powers to investigate serious offences committed by children under 12s.The minimum age of criminal responsibility in England and Wales is 10. The UN committee on the rights of the child has stated that setting the age of criminal responsibility below 12 is considered “not to be internationally acceptable”.Liam McArthur MSP, the Scottish Liberal Democrat justice spokesperson, welcomed the decision. His predecessor in the role Alison McInnes advocated the rise, but her attempts to alter the law by bringing forward amendments to a criminal justice bill in the last Holyrood session were voted down by the SNP.McDonald told the chamber on Thursday that he wanted to put on the record his thanks to McInnes for pressing the issue. McArthur likewise praised her “tireless work”, adding: “Eight-year-olds should be treated as children not criminals. The fact they can receive convictions which need to be declared for decades, or even the rest of their lives, is a national embarrassment.”The acting chair of the Scottish youth parliament, Amy Lee Fraioli MSYP, also welcomed the move, adding that children and young people across Scotland felt strongly about the issue. “Raising the age of criminal responsibility from eight to 12 is an important step towards fully incorporating the UN convention on the rights of the child into Scots law. Many children who find themselves in children’s hearings are also victims themselves, and are often ill-equipped to deal with the situations they find themselves in. Raising the age will help ensure that Scotland is a fair place for children, and shift focus to supporting children instead of criminalising them.”The government has been warned that up to 1 million EU citizens living in the UK could be at risk of deportation if it does not come up with a simple way of recognising their status in the country.The 3 Million, a grassroots group lobbying for the rights of non-British citizens who have made the UK their home, has told the home secretary it would take the Home Office 47 years to process applications from EU citizens for permanent residency (PR). “We are people with families, children, friends and work colleagues, and we are rightly worried about a very uncertain future,” said Nicolas Hatton, chair of the 3 Million, in his letter to Amber Rudd.“EU citizens have been feeling very anxious about their future since the referendum, and this set of data will not reassure them. We call on you to remove the threat of deportation without notice and give us, today, guarantees that all EU citizens living legally in the UK will be able to exercise their right to remain before the UK leaves the EU.”Theresa May has consistently said that rights for EU citizens were a legitimate part of Brexit negotiations, but on Thursday night the government seemed to go one step further by indicating their rights could be removed if not reciprocated.A Home Office spokesperson said: “The home secretary has been clear that she wants to protect the status of EU nationals already living here, and the only circumstances in which that wouldn’t be possible is if British citizens’ rights in European member states were not protected in return.”The estimated time it would take the Home Office to deal with the 3 million EU citizens in the country is based on the latest immigration data, which shows a surge in applications for PR since the EU referendum, which has caused a backlog of 100,000 applications.PR was designed for non-EU citizens who wished to settle in the UK and involves an 85-page application form. Applicants not only have to provide five years of council tax bills, bank statements or utility bills to demonstrate residency, but also have to document each time they have been in and out of the country since they arrived in the UK. Monika Lutke-Daldrup from Germany, who is an executive with a large European firm and lives in Watford, told the Guardian: “I travel about 20 times a year and I have been here for 18 years. It is ridiculous.”Paola Rizatto said: “I am an educated person, but I found the 85-page form so overwhelming that I decided to hire an immigration lawyer. I have already spent around £1,000.”Several mothers who have British children say they are not eligible for PR because their household bills are not in their names. “Just to be married to a British person or to have British children is not enough,” said one. Another, who asked not to be named, said she had been told to get her child’s school to sign a statement that she had been picking up her child each day for the past five years.The 3 Million said the Home Office process for PR “is totally inconsistent and depends on what Home Office adviser you get”.Data published on Thursday shows that 30% of applications are rejected, with many EU citizens unable to pass the paperwork test despite their legal right of residence as EU citizens.If the government requires all non-Britons to join the non-EU immigrants in the permanent residency queue, up to 1 million could face deportation the day the UK leaves the EU. The Home Office said there had been “no change to the rights and status of EU nationals in the UK as a result of the referendum”. Its guidance was that EU citizens did not need to apply for permanent residence. “As such there is no requirement to register for documentation to confirm their status,” a spokesperson said.A company that is implicated in an international bribery scandal has launched legal action against the Serious Fraud Office, alleging that the anti-corruption agency has unlawfully misused its powers.The SFO is investigating Unaoil, a Monaco-based oil and gas firm, over allegations that it paid bribes to win contracts in several countries for dozens of multinationals, including the British engineering firm Rolls-Royce. According to the SFO, the alleged corruption is “very extensive”.On Thursday, Unaoil opened its legal challenge in the high court in London, claiming that investigators working for the SFO unlawfully raided its headquarters in Monaco and seized a large cache of its documents, phones and computer equipment in a “cavalier” fashion. The firm alleges that the raid amounted to an “excessively wide fishing expedition rather than a proper exercise of” its legal powers.Unaoil has denied all wrongdoing. In its submission to Lord Justice Gross and Mr Justice Nicol, Unaoil described how the SFO asked the police in Monaco to raid its HQ in March and used a truck to transport the seized material to the UK.The raid was initiated after the SFO started investigating corruption allegations involving Unaoil, Rolls-Royce and an Australian multinational, according to Unaoil’s submission. The allegations related to transactions in Iraq dating back to 2005, the submission said.Hugo Keith, a QC acting for Unaoil, alleged that the SFO’s request to the Monaco police to carry out the raid “lacked candour” and had misled them over the seriousness and urgency of the reasons for the raid.Ata Ahsani, chairman of Unaoil, and his two sons, Cyrus and Saman, are seeking a court order quashing the legality of the raid, compelling the SFO to return the seized material and destroy any copies it holds.A day after the raid in March, reporters at Australia’s Fairfax Media alleged – based on a leak of thousands of Unaoil’s documents – that the firm had systematically corrupted the global oil industry, distributing millions of dollars of bribes on behalf of Rolls-Royce and other multinationals which were seeking to secure contracts.Rolls-Royce said it was fully co-operating with investigations into the allegations and could not comment in detail.The SFO is opposing Unaoil’s legal challenge, maintaining that its actions were legal. In its defence, the SFO said it had “significant grounds to suspect” that Unaoil had “paid bribes and/or conspired together to pay bribes to high-ranking Iraqi and other public officials on behalf of” its clients.The agency, which said its investigation was not limited to alleged bribery to Iraqi officials, added that Unaoil was “under investigation for the payment of a series of large bribes to government officials and officers of state in a number of countries in relation to the oil and gas sector”.Jonathan Hall, the SFO’s QC, told the court that the agency “had reasonable grounds to suspect that Unaoil’s main activity is the paying of bribes on behalf of western oil infrastructure companies and the corrupting of tendering exercises to favour its clients”.The SFO said it was concerned “that the effect of this flawed claim [by Unaoil] – whether that is its purpose or otherwise – will be to delay and disrupt an ongoing criminal investigation into serious fraud and corruption”.Judgment will be given at a later date.Life has not been easy for Paradise Sorouri. In the past seven years, the 27-year-old has been forced to flee her country twice, received more death threats than she can count, and was brutally beaten by 10 men on the street and left to die. Her crime? She covers her head with a baseball cap instead of a hijab, raises her voice for women’s rights, and is Afghanistan’s first female rapper.In a country where, according to the UN, 87% of women have endured physical or sexual violence, Paradise’s scathing lyrics about gender inequality in post-Taliban Afghanistan have served as a spark for change and a lightning rod for controversy. She raps defiantly in Dari about how women can get acid poured on their faces for resisting rape, be married off as children to older men, and belong to husbands who can set them on fire.“It doesn’t matter if you are a singer, an artist, or a teacher,” says Paradise. “If you are a woman in Afghanistan, you are a problem. I am speaking out and fighting for women who don’t have a voice.”Speaking out has come at a price, but it has also garnered support. Paradise was recognised by the UN in 2013 for promoting human rights, while she and her fiance Diverse – together they are known as 143Band – won the Afghan ATN network’s award for best rap act in 2015. The duo are nominated again this year.But as her popularity soared, so did the number of violent threats she received. Fearing for their safety, last year she and Diverse fled Afghanistan and joined the more than one million migrants who arrived in Germany from the Middle East. In the process, the pair have begun to reach an entirely new audience, writing and producing songs in their Berlin flat and touring throughout Germany. They release their first music video in two years next month for the song Bosaye Eshgh, they’ve just headlined at the international FeminEast festival in Stockholm, and Rebel Beats, a documentary about Paradise’s struggle as Afghanistan’s first female rapper, will appear in European film festivals early next year.Born in Iran to Afghan parents who escaped the country’s civil war, Paradise moved back to Herat, Afghanistan’s third largest city, with her family following the fall of the Taliban. She grew up idolising Tupac, Eminem and Beyoncé though didn’t know anyone who shared her love of hip-hop until she met Diverse – another former refugee just back from Iran. The two decided to start making music together in 2008, but the odds were against them.“Herat is a very religious city,” says Diverse. “Sharia law forbids women to sing. The fact that we are not married was also a problem. Every time we’d try to go to a studio together, strangers would start following us.”One night, Paradise was walking home with her younger brother when 10 men on six motorcycles surrounded her and started beating her with wooden rods. “They were shouting at me and saying I was a bad influence on other women by trying to make music,” Paradise says. “All I could do was to try to defend my brother. They passed me from one man to the next. I begged people nearby to help, but they just urged the men to beat me to death.”When Diverse found her, Paradise’s clothes were torn and she was covered in blood. He immediately took her to the police. “They told me I should stop singing,” says Paradise. “That’s when I knew that if I stayed silent, nothing would change.”Fearful of what might happen if they stayed in Herat, the couple moved to neighbouring Tajikistan in late 2010, where Paradise began writing songs about women’s rights over Diverse’s beats. The following year, they released Faryad-e Zan (Woman’s Shout), the first song ever to feature a female Afghan rapper. In the years since, Paradise says she feels “proud and honoured” to have ushered in a handful of other female rappers, even if several have claimed to be the country’s first while simultaneously asking her for guidance.During the next two years, the duo recorded nine more songs and shot five videos in the relative safety of Tajikistan. Then, in the summer of 2012, Paradise received horrific news: back in Herat, to avoid being married off to men in their 60s, her two young cousins – aged nine and 12 – had burned themselves alive.Devastated, Paradise returned to Afghanistan and recorded a song in their memory called Nalestan. “I wanted to think and they hit me in the head,” she sang. “They burned my face in the name of Islam / And sold me because I’m only a woman.” The song won international attention, with 143Band named Afghanistan’s best rap artist at the 2014 Rumi world music awards.“The success of Nalestan was both good and bad,” Paradise says. “We were interviewed by journalists from all over the world, but I started to get death threats every day. It got so bad I had to stay inside my sister’s house in Herat for a month like a prisoner.” Still, Paradise and Diverse were convinced their message of female empowerment would be more effective if they stayed in Afghanistan, so they relocated once more, this time to Kabul.When Rebel Beats began filming in early 2015, a woman named Farkhunda – who was falsely accused of burning the Qur’an – had just been beaten to death and set alight by an angry mob in the street. The daily barrage of threats directed at Paradise had also reached a fever pitch and, throughout the film, she anxiously looks over her shoulder to see if she’s being watched.At one point, the camera holds on a stony-faced Paradise as she reads message after message directed at her on 143Band’s Facebook page. Several men describe wanting to rape and behead her in front of Diverse. Another says he’ll throw acid on her if he ever sees her in person. The only time she breaks is when she’s asked about Farkhunda. “She has made me stronger,” Paradise says, fighting back the tears. “I will fight – not only for Farkhunda, but for all the Farkhundas.”A month after the cameras stopped rolling, Paradise and Diverse left Afghanistan for good and began the arduous process of resettling in Berlin. Paradise is still fighting and is scheduled to speak at Talking Taboo, an international conference for women’s rights in London on 2 December.“The people of Afghanistan still need our voice,” she says. “From here, we can make it louder.”Extra legal powers may be needed to prosecute hate preachers who encourage violent radicalisation in private conversations, according to the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation.In his final report after six years in the influential post, David Anderson QC says the requirement in the 2006 Terrorism Act that such persuasion needs to be “published” or delivered at a meeting should be re-examined.“That change might make it possible to use undercover officers for the purposes of gathering evidence against those who are inspiring terrorists,” he suggests.It may also be necessary to specify more clearly “examples of ways in which support for a proscribed organisation could be invited”, he explains. “Prosecutors with experience of such cases have told me that this could assist juries in matching the alleged conduct to the offence.”Anderson, who stands down in February, was not formally recommending such changes but believed there should be a more detailed inquiry. “I offer them for discussion as a possible partial solution to the problems of prosecuting hate preachers,” he writes, “and in the spirit that our freedoms are better protected by a well-functioning criminal law than they are by a system based on coercive civil orders of broad and uncertain scope.”Anderson says: “It is entirely fair to ask why the law did not catch up with Anjem Choudary [who was convicted of inviting support for Daesh earlier this year] sooner.” He said the Crown Prosecution Service considered Choudary’s activities on 10 occasions between 2002 and 2015.In general conclusions, Anderson observes: “Laws against terrorism need to bear down hard on all kinds of extremists who espouse violence: but it is important also that they do not alienate the rest of the population.”He welcomes the steady decline in the number of so-called port stops, used to question and detain travellers to determine whether they are involved in terrorism. They have fallen from 87,218 in 2009-10 to 28,083 last year.“My overall impression is that though port controls remain a frequently mentioned irritant, the terrorism acts are no longer the focus for grievance that they once were,” Anderson notes. “Indeed they have been overtaken as a source of grievance by aspects of the Prevent strategy to counter extremism.”The terrorism acts, he says, “are a broadly proportionate reaction to the current threat”. He states: “I reject the false narrative of power-hungry security services, police insensitivity to community concerns, and laws constantly being ratcheted up to new levels of oppression.”However, Brexit could damage the UK’s ability to lead European policy and promote European laws in the counter-terrorism field, Anderson says.He adds: “There are strong operational reasons for maintaining access to EU mechanisms that others may devise. Brexit will not alter the fact that as crime [including terrorist crime] crosses borders with increasing ease, the same must be true of the information and resources that are needed by those who fight it.”In the report, written after the murder of the Labour MP Jo Cox by the Nazi sympathiser Thomas Mair, Anderson says: “The organised extreme rightwing threat in the UK is … perceived by the authorities to be fragmented, with no unifying ideology or set of principles. “In a document provided to me by the national counter-terrorism policing operations centre in July 2016, the threat of organised XRW groups was described as … ‘limited to low-level protest and heated online debate’.”There were no deaths or injuries from terrorism in Britain during 2015, the report says, “unless one counts the injuries sustained by Lyle Zimmerman at Leytonstone tube station in London in December”. In Northern Ireland, there were three security-related deaths in the year to 31 March 2016.The report adds: “Outside Northern Ireland, there have been only two deaths in the UK from terrorist incidents since 56 people [including four British suicide bombers] were killed in the 7/7 London attacks of 2005. The continuation of that record is impressive.”The threat remains, however: “Some attackers or would-be attackers leave only a very limited intelligence trace, particularly if their radicalisation has been swift. “Others come to the attention of the authorities but are not given the priority that their subsequent actions show them to have merited, often for understandable reasons. And as was demonstrated recently in Nice, even such an everyday object as a large motor vehicle can exact a horrible toll on the innocent when used by a person heedless of the consequences for his own life.”In his parting comments, Anderson observes: “Human rights do not hamper the fight against terrorism and extremism: they underline its legitimacy.”Much has been written recently about the shocking conditions inside Britain’s jails. Suicides are occurring on average once every three days, and prison inspectors said this week that conditions in HMP Hindley are among the worst they have ever seen.It’s about time that prisons stopped being holiday camps. Or at least that is what the Daily Mail would encourage you to think. If you ask the average person on the street why someone would end up in prison, you are likely to get some version of: “Because they have chosen to break the law and have harmed someone else.” And on prison’s purpose? “They should be harsh places of punishment to set an example and act as a deterrent.”I work in the criminal justice system and have committed a large proportion of my life to trying to support offenders to turn their lives around. So you might expect me to argue against that statement, to try to blame the wider socio-economic picture and present a social justice argument about how we are all to blame for the crimes committed by these men and women.However I completely agree that those who choose to commit crime should face incarceration. That prisons should be well run by the prison staff; who as society’s representatives in prison should be setting the agenda, holding firm boundaries and delivering society’s intention to both punish the offender and to minimise the chances of them choosing to break the law in the future. So on that level, I believe that the current situation in prisons is a travesty. Prisons are chronically understaffed and the inmates have far more power than ever before.Contraband is commonplace. Where there is contraband, there is trade and where there is trade, there are people who control that trade who have status and power that they will seek to maintain. We have allowed a situation to develop where prison becomes an environment where the very traits and tendencies that we would hope prison would diminish are in fact reinforced, as legitimate strategies for survival and for status.Staff shortages are now so acute that in many prisons, prisoners are spending 23 hours a day locked up – denied access to education and training, exercise and other activity proved to decrease the likelihood to reoffending.So even from that paradigm, of prisons being for people who have chosen to break the law, the situation in prisons is unacceptable.However in our experience of working with young men involved in the criminal justice system, the percentage of those who consciously chose to break the law or harm another is small.The others fall into two camps. The first are those who see the supply of drugs to the marketplace as a victimless activity and the best means of making a living they have available, as an unskilled young male with no qualifications. The second group are those so lacking in maturity that they end up committing crimes, not through an active, conscious choice but a failure of impulse control in the moment.It is easy to judge both of those groups and to believe them to be as deserving of punishment. I know I did. Before I had exposure to the reality of the lives they lived, I held strong views, typical of the middle-class culture in which I grew up. I judged drug dealers as preying on the weak in our society and was simply afraid of those who were so volatile and unpredictable. I wanted them taken away.I am now rather embarrassed to have held those views. Over the past decade working with offenders, I have had a number of realisations. The first is that young men do not fully mature psychologically until they are in their mid-20s – something that can be backed up by research and evidence. I now count myself as fortunate that my middle-class circumstances as a young man meant that my own behaviour through a lack of maturity did not bring me into contact with the criminal justice system.The second realisation builds on that theme of “there but for the winds of fate go I”. I have heard some truly heart-breaking stories of neglect and abuse. I have worked with young men who have been victims of sexual abuse, who as small children witnessed terrible domestic violence in the home, even watching their mother being raped. I have had to ask myself whether if I’d had similar experiences, I would be where I am today. The answer is a resounding no. Emerging neuroscience supports this conclusion, especially for males.The tragedy is that putting these vulnerable young men into a toxic prison environment is likely to decrease their chances of building a successful life for themselves. Being exposed to further trauma, living in a dangerous environment (resulting in an almost constantly adrenalised state), where drugs are freely available and where positive role models are in short supply, are possibly the worst conditions in which to try to effect positive change. Is it any surprise that suicides happen so frequently?Things were bad enough. The advent of “spice” and other synthetic cannabis substances creates a huge additional challenge in the prison environment. An odourless drug that is difficult to detect and can cause psychosis – especially in people who have experienced early-years trauma. Prison staff and others in the system have described it as a game-changer.We the taxpayers are currently spending around £35,000 per prisoner per year to provide places in these institutions that on almost every level are failing. In 1993, the prison population was 44,000. It’s now 80,000.The current system needs a radical rethink and a more nuanced approach to understand the reasons for offending and providing a sentence that is appropriate and has a chance of success. Until we start thinking in these terms and talking about “sentencing reform”, rather than simply “prison reform”, we are likely to retain a system that costs huge amounts of money, the lives of vulnerable people and the loss of human potential.A judge who asked a complainant in a sexual assault trial why she couldn’t just keep her knees together should be removed from the bench, an inquiry tasked with probing the matter has concluded.In a unanimous recommendation released on Wednesday, the five-person inquiry committee of the Canadian Judicial Council said Robin Camp “committed misconduct” while presiding over a 2014 trial into allegations of sexual assault.The judge’s conduct, the committee said in its report, “was so manifestly and profoundly destructive of the concept of the impartiality, integrity and independence of the judicial role that public confidence is sufficiently undermined to render the judge incapable of executing the judicial office”.The Calgary trial made headlines around the world after it emerged that Camp had repeatedly asked the 19-year-old complainant why she hadn’t done more to prevent the alleged rape. “Why couldn’t you just keep your knees together?” Camp asked her. Later he told her that “sex and pain sometimes go together”.Throughout the trial, Camp erroneously referred to her as “the accused”. At one point he asked the complainant – who said the alleged assault took place on a bathroom sink – why she hadn’t sunk her “bottom down into the basin so he couldn’t penetrate you”.Camp went on to acquit the man accused in the case. The Alberta court of appeal later ordered a new trial.In September, an inquiry began looking into whether Camp – a provincial judge who had been recently promoted to the Federal court – should be removed from the bench.The inquiry heard a remorseful Camp apologise for his remarks. “I was not the good judge I thought I was,” said the 64-year-old. Camp, who was born in South Africa and moved to Calgary in 1998, said he had not understood the changes made to Canadian laws aimed at sheltering sexual assault complainants from discriminatory attitudes.The inquiry also heard from the female complainant, who said Camp’s remarks had left her grappling with suicidal thoughts. “What did he get from asking that?” she asked. “He made me hate myself and he made me feel like I should have done something … that I was some kind of slut.”On Wednesday, the inquiry committee said Camp’s questions showed “an antipathy towards laws designed to protect vulnerable witnesses, promote equality and bring integrity to sexual assault trials.” The judge, they added, also relied on “discredited myths and stereotypes about women and victim-blaming during the trial and in his reasons for judgment.”The recommendation will now be considered by the Canadian Judicial Council. Camp will be invited to make written submissions before the council issues a formal recommendation on his fate to Canada’s justice minister.A tough alternative to prison, possibly involving “visible” work punishments in the community, should be more readily available to judges, the lord chief justice has suggested.Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd has called for a debate on how to develop more challenging sentences that would allow offenders to be kept out of jail.“The most difficult decision a judge ever has to make is whether someone should be sent to prison or not,” the lord chief justice said at his annual press conference in the Royal Courts of Justice on Wednesday. “If you are sending someone to prison for a very short time, the ability of the prison to cope with that person is limited in the current circumstances. It’s very important that you have real alternatives to prison. It’s important you have tough community sentences available … and this is something at which we really need to look.“Should you have some really tough kind of work for [offenders] to do? Should you make the punishment visible? What’s essential is that you have a tough alternative to prison … These are things on which it would be good to have a proper open debate.” Fifteen years ago there was a low level of confidence in the probation service, Thomas said. That had now improved but there was still a need for better communication.“Every judge should go to prison once a year,” Thomas said. “You need to know where you are sending people … The judiciary needs to have confidence and the press needs to see what is being done to rehabilitate or punish people.” There are already provisions for offenders carrying out unpaid work such as removing graffiti, clearing wasteland and decorating public places to be required to wear a high-visibility orange vest, however they are not widely used.In 2008, Labour introduced vests with the words “community payback” written on the back for criminals on community service, a move that attracted controversy and criticism.Thomas’s comments come as jails in England and Wales endure a turbulent period. This month thousands of prison officers staged a walkout amid claims the system was “in meltdown” after a rise in violence and self-harm. There are more than 85,000 people in prison in England and Wales.Asked about the large number of prisoners still being held in jail under indefinite sentences for the protection of the public (IPPs) and who have served far longer than their original tariff, Thomas acknowledged that it was “a problem and I’m very glad to see the numbers coming down.”This month Michael Gove, the former justice secretary, warned that too many people were being sent to prison.A Ministry of Justice spokesperson said: “Protecting the public will always be our top priority. Our message is simple: if you commit a serious offence, you should expect to go to prison.“Sentencing is a matter for independent judges, and the sentencing council recently published new guidelines to make sure sentences accurately reflect the seriousness of the crime.”Last year 8,600 probation staff were outsourced as part of the privatisation of more than half of the probation service in England and Wales.In 2014, seven-year-long contracts for rehabilitation services worth £3.7bn were awarded to companies such as Staffline, Sodexo and MTCnovo to supervise low and medium-risk offenders. Those who are deemed high-risk are still supervised by the National Probation Service.If you work in probation services we’d like to hear from you. What do you think of their current state, and how have you been affected?You can share your experiences with us by filling in the form below - anonymously if you wish. All information will be kept confidential and we will feature some of the submissions in our coverage.Theresa May should unilaterally pass legislation to secure the rights of up to 3 million European Union citizens to stay in Britain or risk souring the tone of the Brexit talks, according to Labour’s Keir Starmer.The shadow Brexit secretary said May should act immediately and abandon her increasingly controversial position of refusing to make any concession over the rights of EU citizens in the UK without securing equivalent guarantees for the 1.2 million UK citizens living elsewhere in the EU.“It’s becoming increasingly apparent to me from my discussions in Brussels with those that are likely to be involved in the negotiations that they are very concerned about the fact that we are not giving comfort and status to their citizens,” he told the Guardian.“They have said to me, pretty well in terms, the UK should sort this out before March, and that would ensure that the article 50 negotiations got off to a much better start than they will otherwise do.”Relations between the UK and the rest of the EU have become increasingly heated on the topic. On Tuesday the European council president, Donald Tusk, published a strongly worded letter to a group of Conservative MPs saying the issue would have to wait for formal negotiations to begin and appeared to blame the British electorate for causing the uncertainty in the first place.Starmer described Tusk’s letter as unhelpful, but said it “points to the need to act unilaterally now, and is further evidence of the unhelpful atmosphere that has been created in the lead-up to the negotiations”.In his letter Tusk added: “The only way to dispel the fears and doubts of all citizens concerned is the quickest possible start of the negotiations based on article 50 of the treaty.”But Starmer, the MP for Holborn and St Pancras in London, said the government should take more urgent action as a goodwill gesture before formal talks begin. “Everywhere you go there is a mounting sense of very real injustice. I think everybody feels it; it’s across parties, and it can’t be left unresolved any longer.”At prime minister’s questions on Wednesday, May defended her approach. She said: “I think the reaction that we have seen shows it was absolutely right for us not to do what the Labour party wanted us to do, which was simply to give away the guarantee for rights of EU citizens here in the UK. As we have seen, that would have left UK citizens in Europe high and dry.”The government has suggested the vast majority of those EU citizens already living in the UK are likely to be entitled to apply for permanent residence, because they have been here for more than five years. But Starmer said that could be a bureaucratic and unwieldy process and could overwhelm the resources of the Home Office. He added that “permanent residence” was an EU concept, which would be expected to fall away when Britain leaves.Instead, he suggested the government could “pass a domestic law, dealing with the status of these individuals, and it would get cross-party support, and could be passed very swiftly”.He added: “At the very least there ought to be clarity for those who were already here on 23 June.”The bad blood between London and Brussels over the future of EU citizens was indicative of a wider problem with the tone the government had adopted as it approached the coming negotiations, Starmer claimed, warning about “mixed messages” from London.He contrasted May’s Conservative party conference speech, widely interpreted as signalling she favoured hard Brexit, with reassurances subsequently given to Nissan about continued access to the single market.“It’s very difficult to suggest that what [May] said at conference and the Nissan assurance are the same thing, and so mixed messages are being received in Brussels. That is not healthy.”He added that the sometimes jocular tone of the foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, risked offending his EU counterparts. “They perceive an arrogance on behalf of the UK, and Boris Johnson may think he’s very amusing in his approach, but my perception is our EU partners are not in the mood for that kind of amusement.” He added: “We need to make sure that the tone is right.”With just four months to go until May’s self-imposed end-of-March deadline for triggering article 50, Starmer said he believed there was still a tussle within the government about what kind of relationship with the EU it wanted to aim at when negotiations began.“I think they haven’t come to a final view, and that is because the argument about Europe that has been going on for years in the Tory party has broken out like never before,” he said. “It’s become an argument about the very future of our country.”Labour’s own stance on Brexit has sometimes appeared less than unanimous, and senior party figures have told the Guardian that Starmer himself – one of the highest profile promotions when Jeremy Corbyn refilled his frontbench after the summer leadership challenge – is being “man marked”.He underlined Corbyn’s insistence that the party would not seek to block the triggering of article 50 – but did not rule out amending any legislation the government brings to parliament, to force May to reveal more about her negotiating stance.“We won’t frustrate the process, but we do want to put some grip and grit into the process, to ensure that parliament and the public know the prime minister’s starting position,” he said. Asked if that could mean Labour tabling amendments to any bill, he said: “So long as it doesn’t frustrate the process, then it is important to look at options.”Asked whether Brexit presented “enormous opportunities”, as the shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, recently said, Starmer replied: “I think there are huge risks in Brexit; and I see the task of the Labour party as being to ensure that we get the best possible outcome that works for everybody in the UK.”He also struck a somewhat different tone from the shadow home secretary, Diane Abbott, on how Labour should tackle voters’ concerns about immigration.Starmer crisscrossed the country earlier this year as shadow immigration minister – a job Abbott has not taken on herself alongside the home affairs brief.Abbott used a recent interview to insist that Labour must champion the benefits of immigration, or risk becoming “Ukip-lite”.Starmer said it was right to praise the contribution of migrants to Britain’s economy and society. But he said hundreds of conversations across the north-east, north-west, east and Wales had convinced him that “Labour needs to have a better answer for those that are concerned about immigration”.“I don’t think we can hide from that, and don’t think frankly it was just the referendum. I think this has been a growing issue for five or 10 years, and it’s an issue on which Labour needs to get on the front foot, and off the back foot, and that means we have got to listen to what people are telling us are their concerns.”Abbott and the shadow business secretary, Clive Lewis, have suggested that boosting trade union rights to enhance workers’ bargaining power and prevent wages being undercut could help allay voters’ concerns.But Starmer insisted the party should also develop new policies on integrating different ethnic groups – an issue likely to be tackled in a forthcoming review by Louise Casey.“There is a big labour market element to it of course,” Starmer said, but he added: “I do think there is a wider piece about how our communities live together, and we ensure that integration works in a way that benefits everybody, and by that I mean as much those arriving as those who are already here.“That’s a debate that Labour have not engaged in at all really over recent years. And we shouldn’t be scared of this territory. In a sense, we don’t want to hear what people are saying to us; we just sort of move the conversation on. And my concern is Labour are not seen to be listening on this, and we need to be.”Four Metropolitan police officers who say they were “branded abusive thugs” after the arrest of terror suspect Babar Ahmad 13 years ago have won the right to seek damages in the high court.After a long legal battle, the court of appeal ruled the four could bring an action for compensation against the Met commissioner for “letting them down badly” by failing to robustly defend them over Ahmad’s claim that they had beaten him up.The Met agreed in March 2009 to pay £60,000 damages to Ahmad after an admission that officers subjected him to a “serious, gratuitous and prolonged” attack.Ahmad said he was punched, kicked and throttled during his arrest by officers from the Met’s territorial support group in December 2003.The Met initially denied the claims, saying officers used reasonable force.But lawyers for the force’s then commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, admitted at the high court that Ahmad had been the victim of gratuitous and sustained violence at his home in Tooting, south-west London.The four officers – Pc Rod James-Bowen, Pc Nigel Cowley, Pc Mark Jones and DC John Donohue – were charged with various criminal offences. After a five-week hearing at Southwark crown court in 2011, the jury acquitted them of all charges.The officers launched their own damages action against the Met commissioner.A high court judge struck down their case in its entirety, but three appeal judges ruled on Wednesday that the four were entitled to bring their claim “for economic and reputational harm based on a breach of a duty of care at common law”.The latest attempt by tobacco companies to prevent the introduction of mandatory plain packaging of cigarettes in the UK has been rejected by the court of appeal.The judgment is a fresh blow to companies who face having to replace their current heavily branded distinctive packs with boxes that are indistinguishable from each other bar the brand name on the packet in standard typeface, colour and size.The regulations aim to reduce the appeal and uptake of smoking, by children and young people in particular, help smokers to quit, prevent misleading packaging, and give greater prominence to health warnings.But British American, Imperial, Japan International and Philip Morris claim that the move would infringe their human and intellectual property rights.In May, the high court rejected their arguments, the day before the tobacco products directive of the EU took effect. Some of the companies took the case to the court of appeal last month but, on Wednesday, the three judges, sitting at the Royal Courts of Justice in central London, dismissed the challenge.Lord Justice Lewison, Lord Justice Beatson and Sir Stephen Richards ruled that the health secretary had “lawfully exercised his powers”.The companies now have the option of appealing to the supreme court.Nicola Blackwood, the public health and innovation minister, said: “Standardised packaging will help cut smoking rates and reduce suffering, disease and loss of life. We are pleased that this decision will help many people to lead longer and healthier lives.”Since May, legal challenge notwithstanding, companies have been forbidden from making packets that do not comply with the directive. However, they are allowed to sell off existing cigarette stocks until May next year, which means plain packets will only emerge in the shops gradually. The new packs will be the same shape, size and colour (green) and 65% of the front and back surfaces will be covered by picture health warnings, with written warnings on the sides.Deborah Arnott, the chief executive of the health charity Ash, said: “This is a victory for public health and another crushing defeat for the tobacco industry. This ruling should also encourage other countries to press ahead with standardised packaging, now that the industry’s arguments have yet again been shown to be without foundation.”Simon Clark, the director of the smokers’ group Forest, said: “By stigmatising the product, the government is also targeting the user. Plain packs are unlikely to deter people from smoking but the impact on consumer choice could be significant because some brands will almost certainly disappear from the market.“Tobacco is a legal product. The law should not impose excessive regulations on consumers who know the health risks and don’t need this type of finger-wagging measure.”The Forest website says Forest is supported by British American Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco Limited and Gallaher Limited, a member of the Japan Tobacco group of companies.• This article was amended on 1 December 2016 to include the supporters of Forest.I serve on the independent monitoring board at Bedford jail where prisoners rioted this month. For the past eight years I have visited the prison about once a week. Every prison in England and Wales has an IMB of ordinary citizens, appointed by the justice secretary in much the same way as are magistrates. Their voluntary job is to monitor whether prisons do what they say on the tin – provide a safe and secure environment within which to help prisoners lead law-abiding and useful lives in custody and after they are released. Members visit their prison unaccompanied and unannounced, and have unfettered access to it.In August, the IMB was so concerned for the safety of prisoners and staff that it took the unprecedented step of writing to the prisons minister, Sam Gyimah, asking for his urgent help.HMP Bedford is a small, busy jail that holds about 500 prisoners, both remanded from the courts in neighbouring towns and others whose sentence plans are still being worked out prior to their dispersal elsewhere. It is located in the town centre, with excellent communications for staff and prisoners’ families, a location that allows, in principle, for extensive partnerships and engagements with local communities. But the antiquated buildings and facilities are desperately in need of renovation to make them fit-for-purpose (typically two grown men living, sleeping, eating and relieving themselves in cells built ungenerously in 1850 for one man, now with an unscreened WC and basin in place of two tin buckets).The IMB’s last two annual reports – to the end of June 2015 and June 2016 – warned that the jail was in need of infrastructural investment, overcrowded by as much as 50%, and perilously under-staffed.Within prisons drugs, violence and merciless bullying are endemic. The mix is toxic and threatening, a damaging punishment over and above the deprivation of liberty, autonomy and contact with your roots. Surely no judge intended such suffering when passing sentence?Some lessons were learned a decade before I started visiting prisons: individuals need to be treated with decency, both because they are individual human beings and because rehabilitative efforts were shown to be futile in the absence of respect. Prisons can furthermore only be run economically by consent – an implicit pact between prisoners and staff, which depends upon the prisoners perceiving the prison management’s use of authority as having legitimacy. Decency thus has a crucial central place, in lock-step with rehabilitation, in securing cost-effectiveness.The decency agenda has raised standards, but it requires continual attention which it has been often impossible to sustain in recent years as ”‘austerity” has swept through the prison estate. A series of savings-driven restructuring programmes have lowered salaries, changed terms of employment, drastically reduced staffing levels and deskilled officers. Capital and maintenance budgets have been slashed. Governors’ autonomy has been progressively eroded, not least by a long series of expensive and quite possibly ill-judged outsourcing contracts. The impacts have been devastating, and form the backdrop to the riots at HMP Bedford.For prisons to deliver rehabilitation, on top of secure containment, there needs to be: a decent, structured, calm and uncrowded environment; sufficient numbers of committed staff who have the skill to go way beyond the (already very difficult) running of a safe jail, by working individually with every prisoner; ample opportunities for prisoners to use their time constructively (remedial and more ambitious education, training, work); and consistently superlative leadership and dedication to purpose throughout the system. By August this year, the cost-cutting programmes of the last few years had bitten hard into HMP Bedford. Many experienced staff members had left the service for better-respected and remunerated employment, necessitating the deployment of inexperienced officers. Recruitment and retention difficulties, (uncompetitive salaries set against the difficulty of the job) and long-term sickness were so serious that it was no longer possible to deliver the full range of required out-of-cell activities (opportunites to socialise with other prisoners, shower, make telephone calls, exercise, education, work etc) safely.Opportunities for prisoners to be involved in any constructive employment were already drastically reduced and were fast vanishing. Instead, prisoners locked in their cells – often for up to 23 hours a day. These unplanned and unannounced “bang-ups” unsettled the prisoners as well as reinforcing their boredom. Staff shortages and rotations had become so severe that officers had insufficient time even to get to know the prisoners in their charge, let alone attend to their needs. The use of drugs had spiralled, and with that trade, the bullying of the weak and vulnerable. The incidence of self-harm and of violent assaults, both prisoner-on-prisoner and prisoner-on-staff, was rising alarmingly.There was increasing rumour of prisoner unrest. The IMB was hearing accounts from officers that they were becoming afraid to work on the prison’s largest wing. The IMB letter to the minister warned that staff shortages were “beyond crisis point” and of the “alarming rise in prisoners attempting to hang themselves”. In the 10 weeks between the posting of the letter and the minister’s response, two prisoners were found hanged.Gyimah’s reply, dated 27 October, however, was written very much in the register adopted for the minister’s acknowledgement of the IMB’s annual report. It gave airy explanations of how the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) agency, the National Offender Management Service (Noms), and the senior prison officers were coping with the IMB’s concerns, while conveying nothing more urgent in intention than a pat on the head. In effect, he was saying: “This is a prison! If you can’t stand the heat, keep out of the kitchen. Sorry to hear that it has made you anxious.” Less than two weeks later, on Sunday 6 November, the prison erupted in a widely reported riot involving more than 200 men from two wings. The incident of “concerted indiscipline” stopped short of catastrophe because: the officers on duty read the seriousness of the situation in time to withdraw, by degrees, and deprive the rioters both of hostages and keys; because of the sang-froid of the governor, as she took charge of the incident in the “command suite”; and because the prisoners were intent more on making a protest than on blood. This last may be a surprise to many, but I believe it to have been the case. Two residential wings and the central office and observation area were comprehensively trashed, nonetheless.Surveying the devastation a couple of days later, an IMB colleague and I were approached by two experienced officers, who were plainly deeply affected by the riot. They wanted us to see the graffiti – versions of “If you treat us like animals, we will eventually behave like animals”, which implied that, at that moment, the prisoners and officers saw the prison in the same light. These officers were acutely aware that the extreme working environment they had experienced for months was paralleled by the stress they had imposed on the desperate prisoners. Behind their emotion lay the cataclysmic loss of trust. When this collapses, then all that you have worked to achieve seems to have failed. The officers were devastated.The prisoners involved in the riot have been sent, in small batches, to prisons across the country. When they return, as many surely will (they are essentially local men) after the wings have been refurbished and the staffing problems have been resolved, I expect to hear similar deeply felt stories of betrayed trust from them, because there is never only one side to a story.The inner turmoil experienced by the staff members on duty at the time of the riot has been debilitating. They had to take the awful decision to withdraw, abandoning the prison and vulnerable prisoners. The senior management team are racked with guilt that things came to this pass under their command.Many rioters will only have participated for fear of violent reprisals if they abstained, creating fear at the time and complicated long-term consequences for them in the future. Even the instigators merit understanding – of their circumstances, if not of their actions. They may have been more hot-headed than others, but the prisoners had collectively been driven to desperation by the poverty and randomness of the regime. Nonetheless, prisoners and staff connived, in a sense, to bring the insurrection under control before any mortal damage was done. It is interesting that they left the library untouched.It would be easy to attribute blame for the riot to the local actors, but that would represent a profound injustice and a failure to understand the horrors and complexities of prison. The staff at all levels at HMP Bedford have awed me by their consistent courage, loyalty, resilience, ready sense of decency and professionalism in the face of increasingly overwhelming odds. This was evidenced over months of difficulty and in spades on the day of the riot when prisoners, having stoically endured a seemingly endlessly deteriorating and irregular regime, lost faith in the prison management’s use of authority as having legitimacy, abandoned the implicit pact, and “kicked off”. They had cried for help, as had the IMB, the officers, and the governor to her superiors – but no one at the top of the tree heard their pleas. Who, then, was blameworthy?I arrive at the following conclusions. The cost-cutting demanded of Noms, and, by extension, of individual prisons, has taken on the dimensions of an extreme human experiment, which in the social sciences these days would be blocked on ethical grounds. . There was no attempt to introduce these reforms gradually at a national level, or on a pilot basis, and then learn from the experience. There was no “evidence base” for these reforms. and no attempt to collect any. They were thus driven purely by ideology and finance. In general, the prison system seems reluctant to set up mechanisms whereby it can learn from its mistakes. The trial has failed also because the premise upon which it was based is misconceived. Prisons are being asked to achieve the unachievable.Successive ministers have cut costs in the face of insistent warnings from many quarters, including the prison officers’ and the prison governors’ associations, the chief inspector of prisons, the IMBs and the many prison reform lobbying organisations. The only response has been about readjusting budgets over an extended period. Even though the new justice secretary, Liz Truss, has acknowledged (in her recent white paper) that cost-cutting has driven prisons to an extreme where they are not even able to operate safely, no proportionate or urgent action has been taken by the politicians and top civil servants in the MoJ who are responsible for the crisis in prisons. This is a devastating failure of accountability. They must acknowledge responsibility for the damage done.The recent prison riots are testimony to a slow-burn build-up of misery and conflict that has blighted the lives of the prison’s many communities. I would particularly highlight the intolerable burdens that have been placed on officers and managers, as this is seldom sufficiently recognised. At last, it is being acknowledged that prisons cannot  be reformed without high-quality, motivated staff – and this is not simply about having the money to pay them a decent salary (although that is a necessary precondition).Staff members have to be assured that their contribution is valued and that they will be trained and supported to do a difficult job in a meaningful way, especially when they are in the early stages of their career. Most prison officers do not go into the service to bang people up, but to help people change. Making the job so mechanical that it loses its meaning has led to a situation where it is as difficult to retain staff as it is to recruit them.Criminal justice is a political playground, leading to endless changes in emphasis and policy. Prison budgets have not been ringfenced during “austerity”. In consequence, we have massively overcrowded and under-staffed older prisons, some of which are truly shocking, and that is unworthy of a nation that instinctively tends to assume it is a moral model for the rest of the world. Across the country, our prisons have failed to deliver against their social contract to “reform” offenders – so systematically that it is unclear that prisons (especially large ones) can ever deliver this while the political climate remains as it is.A new vision is needed with an emphasis on integrating and accessing the insight contained within the system, . One such vision comprises three principal departures from current thinking. First, sentencing guidance would change radically to substitute community penalties for imprisonment for the vast majority of offences. for which research has shown that incarceration does not generally reduce reoffending. Second, there would be a properly resourced community sentence and probation service centre (CSPSC) in every major town to provide offenders with support, advice, help with housing and employment, remedial education and vocational training, alongside traditional probation service functions. Third, integrated into these centres would be small and local prisons so that all but the few prisoners who need high security jails more security and with intensive support to live safely, remain close to their roots. These new integrated centres would work most effectively if they formed a thriving and well-connected part of local life.And what of the future for HMP Bedford? Its accessibility is such a huge asset that it merits the necessary investment, as long as the prison population is reduced to a level that allows it to offer personal attention, in a safe and calm environment overseen by an adequate number of experienced staff. Only then can a rehabilitative ethos have a chance to be effective.It could even take part in the pilot roll-out of my proposed CSPSCs.• Christopher Padfield is a member of IMB at HMP Bedford and former chair of the national Association of Members of Independent Monitoring Boards. The views expressed here are his own. To join the IMB for a prison near you go to imb.org.ukInquiry chaired by Alexis Jay holds public seminar, hearing that proposed fixed costs regime is a further threat to litigationZoe Williams (Forget Fidel Castro’s policies. Above all, he was a dictator, 28November) bases her judgment of Castro on a frighteningly simplistic division of states into democracies, by implication multiparty ones, and dictatorships, by implication any state that is not multiparty. She then makes a blanket assertion that the latter are so inherently bad that their actual record of government is irrelevant. This is to ignore all the complex details of political structures by which a population can be oppressed or empowered. For us, from a practical point of view, the worst danger of such thinking is to exaggerate the benefits of our political system.While Castro may be rightly criticised for executing Batista supporters, even those guilty of torture and multiple murder, it may be salutary to remember that back then, in 1959, Britain executed people accused of a single murder. It was also a time when British forces were imprisoning and torturing Kenyans, and those of the French multiparty democracy were torturing and killing Algerians. Even those crimes pale before the horrors the US multiparty democracy was shortly to unleash on Vietnam.Turning to the present day and the issue of political freedoms, it is fair to condemn Cuba if people are being arrested for oppositional comment but important to bear in mind that the distinction between criticism and treachery is controversial, as illustrated by the fate of Chelsea Manning. It is reasonable to argue that a single-party state lacks effective mechanisms for kicking out an unpopular government, but we should also wonder whether the convergence of mainstream parties behind austerity and the increasingly low turnouts at elections in the UK are a sign that our mechanisms have ceased to be effective. Margaret DickinsonLondon• While UK press coverage of Fidel Castro’s death has been largely hostile, my own views and memories are mixed, as I was “our man in Havana” for Reuters from 1960 to 1962, a period spanning the Bay of Pigs debacle and the Cuban missile crisis.In July 1962, well after midnight, I, my wife Olivia and Gavin Young of the Observer were walking near the Hotel Nacional when we saw a large car and a familiar silhouette. Gavin rashly stuck his hand in at the car window, introduced himself and said: “Come and have a drink with us, Dr Castro.” He reluctantly agreed to join us “for a quarter of an hour”.At the nearby Club 21, Castro sat with the three of us for over two hours – something of a scoop for us, though he gave little away. At one point he said: “Señora Bland, you have a little boy, yes? Does he receive his milk ration?” Olivia told him: “Actually, no.” Shortly afterwards our son got his regular milk.Two months later, the missile crisis blew up. I drove past a Soviet missile site taking photos of sinister 60-foot-long cylinders under tarpaulins, then was chased off by the secret police, the G2.Two days later they arrested me and took me to G2 headquarters. Reuters gallantly interceded directly with Castro, so I spent only six days in jail and was deported, very conveniently, to Jamaica, where my wife had recently given birth to our second son. The guards’ treatment was cold but civil; I heard no stories of torture or beatings.John H BlandDivonne-les-Bains, France• Richard Gott (Obituary, 28 November) is right to say that Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir were boundless in their admiration for Fidel Castro, at least to begin with, and the two were guests of the revolution from 22 February to 21 March 1960. But in 1971, in part because of the imprisonment of the Cuban poet Heberto Padilla, both severed links with Castro and the Cuban regime. Sartre died in 1980 and Beauvoir in 1986, and did not return to the Castro fold. Bruce Ross-Smith Oxford• Richard Gott does not explain how Fidel Castro managed to retain power for over half a century. He could have mentioned the Committees for the Defence of the Revolution (CDR), set up to spy on the Cuban populace and identify potential dissidents. Each adult Cuban was expected to belong to the local CDR, which was in turn required to keep a file on each of its members. The CDR network was organised with the friendly assistance of the East German Stasi, and based on the system operating in East Germany. The latter was merely a refinement of the Blockleiter system set up in 1935 to control the population of Nazi Germany. Interestingly, the regimes in Nazi Germany, East Germany and Cuba all believed in elections with only one candidate for each seat, and in securing massive voter turnout. Hitler, Honecker, Castro: it really does seem that great minds think alike.Jim FordNewcastle upon Tyne• If the people of St Vincent want to honour the memory of Fidel Castro, surely it is appropriate for the representative of their monarchy to respect their wishes without interference from the British (‘Awkward moment’ for Prince Harry in minute’s silence for Fidel Castro, theguardian.com, 27 November). The attitude of many in Britain has more than a whiff of colonialism.Alison CurtisGooderham, Canada• Zoe Williams’ usually excellent judgment has let her down when she says of Fidel Castro that “What matters is that he was a dictator”, because she forgets the context of a Latin America in the 1950s dominated by rightwing despots, with every effort to replace them with progressive governments being ended by military force. This would continue well into the 1980s, and even in the last decade we have seen two elected, progressive leaders fall to rightwing coups.How does she think a peaceful transformation from revolution to democracy should be secured? Here in Nicaragua, the 1979 revolution was followed by an election in 1984 which was not recognised by the US because it gave the “wrong” result. It was not until 1990, when the electorate correctly chose capitalism, that the US accepted the ballot as valid. It then took 16 years to restore a left-of-centre government, which is now again under threat of US sanctions.Nowhere in Latin America has suffered the baleful influence of US intervention more than Cuba, for reasons of history and geography. The Batista regime was one of the most barbarous in the continent, with its corruption accentuated by the mafia’s control of Havana’s main businesses, yet it was unflinchingly supported by successive US governments. Castro had to defend the revolution’s achievements against the threats both of the US government itself and of the Miami-based terrorist groups who bombed Cuban planes and hotels with impunity, well into the 1990s. Nor has any other country so dependent on US commerce seen its economy strangled by a 50-year embargo, which applies not to just to US firms but to any firm that trades with the US.What was Castro supposed to do, meekly hold elections on terms acceptable to the US, in which millions of dollars would have poured into the country to ensure the “right” result? And then see Cuba return to the oligarchs who still control countries like Honduras and Guatemala? He was well aware that even the mildest leftwing government wouldn’t have been acceptable to the US in a country only 100 miles from its borders. By not acknowledging that, Zoe, you ignore 60 years of US intervention in Central America and the Caribbean.John PerryMasaya, Nicaragua• Reference is rightly made to the fine role Cuba played in supporting opposition to apartheid and also in support of liberation struggles in Angola and Mozambique. I’ve not seen comment on Cuba’s support for Mengistu Haile Mariam when Ethiopia was invaded by the Somali forces of Siad Barre. What is the judgment? Mengistu eventually ousted (to sanctuary in Zimbabwe), Siad forced out and dead; Somalia in a very sorry state and Ethiopia again in some turmoil after a period of relative contentment.Robin Le MareAllithwaite, Cumbria• Like Zoe Williams, I too was in Cuba in the 90s. In 1993 I returned for the first time since 1960 when, during the euphoric early days of the revolution, I spent two months with an international work brigade on the construction of a rural residential school. By contrast, 1993 was a truly terrible year for Cuba. Most supposedly informed observers confidently predicted the imminent collapse of the economy and thought that Cuba would follow the USSR and the eastern European states into oblivion.It is inexcusable to deplore the conditions of extreme hardship endured by the Cuban people without referring to their causes. On top of the US economic blockade of Cuba – which was accurately described by Noam Chomsky as the harshest in the world (harsher than the sanctions imposed on Iraq prior to the 2003 invasion), and which in 1993 had already been in place for 33 years – in 1992 Cuba also had to contend with the collapse of the Soviet Union and the overnight loss of 75% of its foreign trade. No other country has had to endure an economic calamity of such proportions. To not only have survived but to have provided its people with a free education and public health system renowned throughout the world for their excellence is an achievement without parallel.There is nothing comparable to the 57-year-old relentless, punitive hostility with which the greatest superpower has treated a small, poor third-world country. Mike FaulknerLondon• I didn’t recognise Zoe Williams’ caricature of Cuba under Fidel Castro. Yes, Havana may look a little dowdy – but what a relief not to be bombarded with advertising, and the painstaking, carefully planned restoration of the old city (hardly likely under capitalism) has earned it Unesco world heritage site status.If Zoe Williams had ventured a little away from the modestly stocked shops – unsurprising given the devastating US economic boycott, which has also depleted the “elegantly appointed” pharmacies she mocks – she would have found a vibrant musical and cultural life savoured by the Cuban people.It’s true that prostitution – virtually eliminated prior to the fall of Soviet communism – made a comeback with the need to promote international tourism. But given a choice between a country that values every one of its citizens and nurtures their abilities, and one where food banks and beggars on street corners are in danger of becoming the norm, is there really any contest?Peter GodfreyIsle of Harris, Outer Hebrides• We have just returned from Cuba, which we have visited regularly over the last 20 years, and we don’t recognise the country described by Zoe Williams and by the media generally. Cuba is a third-world country because it has been hammered by over 50 years of the illegal US blockade. Nor do we recognise the label of dictator. Cuba has a democracy. Members of its government do not need to be wealthy. They are farmers and shopkeepers; doctors and taxi drivers. In other words, they are citizens selected and elected by their peers. They choose their ministers, who then choose their leader. This is a very different model of democracy to ours. There are no political parties and no political campaigns. Compare that with the US, where $2.6bn was spent, resulting in the election of Donald Trump!Castro walked the streets of Havana safely despite over 500 attempts on his life by the CIA. He is revered by his people – even the BBC in a report on Sunday acknowledged that the young people in Cuba think favourably of him. Perhaps Cuba’s achievements in the fields of free education and healthcare have some bearing on this. This so-called dictator lived in a relatively humble home on the outskirts of Havana and sought no financial gain for himself, only a better life for his fellow citizens.Castro challenged the western world, and that is why it despised him and why the western media portrayed him in the way that they did. The pity is that so many people believe that Cuba has been, and is being, oppressed by its leaders. Our visit this month confirmed our belief that in Cuba, despite the hardships that the people have to endure, the majority of the population are cheerful, friendly and content with the egalitarian system that Castro introduced.Pam and Rog WortleySunderland• The Castro apologism from many on your letters page (28 November) is shameful. We can discuss US politics, blockades, education, literacy and socialism all we want, but we would be missing the point. It is painfully ironic that those who claim to be progressive are so willing to throw these aims out the window when it comes to brutal dictators who oppress and murder anyone who thinks differently to them. Perhaps it tells us what the left’s true aims are. Not equality for all but a vicious hatred of the United States. If standing against the US means throwing gay rights under the bus, then so be it. If standing against the US means throwing religious freedom under the bus, then so be it. If standing against the US means supporting a vicious, brutal, uncompromising, murderous dictator then, it seems, so be it.It is about time the left took a long hard look at themselves. The moral hypocrisy and arrogance is breathtaking and disgraceful. I am ashamed and they should be too. Raphael LevyCambridge• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersThe White House has repudiated Donald Trump’s assertion that protesters who burn the American flag should potentially be imprisoned or stripped of their citizenship.The president-elect tweeted early on Tuesday: “Nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag – if they do, there must be consequences – perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!”It was unclear what had triggered the comment, but it appeared to coincide with a report on the Fox News channel about students at a college in Massachusetts allegedly burning a flag in protest at his shock election win. Trump is known to be an avid consumer of cable TV news.Josh Earnest, the White House spokesman, told reporters that freedom of expression was enshrined in the US constitution. “The need to protect those rights is in place to protect speech and expression not just when we agree with it but also when we find it offensive,” he said.“Many Americans – the vast majority of Americans, myself included – find the burning of the flag offensive but we have a responsibility as a country to carefully protect our rights that are enshrined in the constitution.”Earnest added: “This is a bipartisan sentiment. I know that there are conservatives on the supreme court that share the view that I’ve just articulated. I know that there are Democrats and Republicans in the United States Congress that share the view I’ve just articulated, and it certainly is consistent with the kind of governing agenda that President Obama has pursued here in the White House during his eight years in the Oval Office.”Asked if the president, who has spoken to Trump by phone more than once since the election, was concerned about such views, Earnest replied: “This is not the first thing that the president-elect has said or tweeted that President Obama disagrees with.”Freedom of speech extended to Twitter, he said, “so there’s a little irony in this situation”.The supreme court ruled in 1989 that flag-burning is “expressive conduct” protected by the first amendment. Among those voting with the court majority in the Texas v Johnson case was the late justice Antonin Scalia, for whom Trump has regularly expressed admiration.Asked about Trump’s comments, Mitch McConnell, the Republican Senate majority leader, said he supported the supreme court’s decision.“The supreme court has held that that activity is a protected first amendment right, a form of unpleasant speech,” McConnell told reporters on Capitol Hill. “In this country we have a long tradition of respecting unpleasant speech.”Joe Manchin, a Democratic senator from West Virginia, also agreed that flag-burning was a constitutional right.But he added: “If you do it in front of me, I’m going to beat the hell out of you.”Trump’s proposal was also condemned as unconstitutional on another count. In a 1967 case, Afroyim v Rusk, the supreme court ruled that the constitution does not allow the government to take away an individual’s citizenship against their will.Shane Kadidal, a senior managing attorney at the Center for Constitutional Rights, said: “There are two baseline constitutional tenets that he manages to screw up in 140 characters.”Scalia was among the judges in the case that established that flag burning is “constitutionally protected speech”, Kadidal added, while “it’s even more established, by half a century, that one can only lose one’s citizenship by voluntary means”.Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said: “The supreme court has spoken in the flag-burning case. The constitutionality of that is pretty settled. The law is clear and has been for some time.“Burning the flag is widely seen as a social taboo but not a legal one. It’s a freedom we’ve had for 200 years and it had to trump the other interests, no matter how vile we might think that activity is. Justice Scalia thought the constitution had to be paramount.”Trump has previously been accused of showing little respect for the US constitution. Khizr Khan, a Muslim whose son was killed while serving in Iraq, memorably questioned at the Democratic national convention whether the celebrity businessman had even read it.On Tuesday, there was also criticism from Trump’s own party. David Frum, a former speechwriter for President George W Bush and now a senior editor of the Atlantic, tweeted: “If flag-burning merits loss of citizenship, what should be the penalty for a Nazi salute by a Trump supporter?”He also posted: “Donald Trump’s political career is one protracted flag burning. The symbols of the Republic properly belong to his opponents.”Congressman Sean Duffy, a Republican from Wisconsin, told CNN: “We want to protect those people who want to protest … I disagree with Mr Trump on that.”Trump would not be the first president to attempt a ban on flag burning. The Flag Protection Act of 1989 was supported by George HW Bush before it was ruled unconstitutional, and the Flag Protection Act of 2005, another failed attempt to criminalise flag burning, was co-sponsored by then senator Hillary Clinton.The latter effort was also supported by Harry Reid, now the outgoing Senate Democratic leader. Reid said on Tuesday his vote was not equivalent to what Trump was suggesting.“We know Trump tweeted that he feels that someone who burns a flag should lose their citizenship,” the Nevada Democrat told reporters in his weekly press conference on Capitol Hill. “I don’t agree with him; he’s gone way too far.”Arizona senator John McCain said he also disapproved of burning the flag but declined to address Trump’s specific claim that people who do so should lose their citizenship.“I think there should be some punishment, but right now the supreme court decision is that people are free to express themselves that way,” McCain told CNN.“There’s other ways for people to express their views rather than to burn a flag that so many fought and died for.”The 2008 Republican presidential nominee grew testy, however, when pressed further on Trump’s views.“I’m not commenting on Mr Trump’s comments,” McCain said. “I have not and will not.”“That may be your priority, to comment every day on any comment that Mr Trump has,” he added of reporters. “My priority is to try to defend the nation and the men and women who are serving it.”Not for the first time, the president-elect’s Twitter habits deflected attention from transition business, although that too is being played out in an unusually public manner. He has now held 68 meetings with potential administration members, transition spokesperson Sean Spicer said.On Tuesday, Trump named representative Tom Price as health secretary and, according to reports, planned to name Elaine Chao as transportation secretary.Chao, who was labour secretary under Bush, is married to McConnell. She was also a member of Trump’s Asian Pacific American Advisory Council during his presidential campaign.Price, an orthopaedic surgeon from Georgia, has spent more than a decade in Congress and influenced the healthcare plan that the House speaker, Paul Ryan, is pushing as an alternative to Barack Obama’s signature Affordable Care Act. Price is also a fierce opponent of abortion rights and described the legalisation of gay marriage as “a sad day for marriage”.For Democrats it was yet another ominously rightwing appointment. The incoming Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, said Price “has proven to be far out of the mainstream of what Americans want when it comes to Medicare, the Affordable Care Act, and Planned Parenthood”.Schumer said those programmes have helped millions of Americans, including “seniors, families, people with disabilities and women, have access to quality, affordable healthcare. Nominating Congressman Price to be the HHS [health and human services] secretary is akin to asking the fox to guard the hen house.”The House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, said: “If Tom Price has his way with the Affordable Care Act, millions of families who have finally found affordable coverage for themselves and their children will be pushed back into the cold. Doctors would be hounded out of lifesaving research, and women would be denied their right to contraception and comprehensive healthcare.”Trump was due to have dinner on Tuesday night with Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee for president in 2012 and a former foe who is now in contention for the position of secretary of state. The president-elect will begin a “thank you tour” on Thursday night with a rally in Cincinnati, Ohio.Victims of abuse are finding it increasingly difficult to bring claims for compensation to court because of cuts to legal aid and high legal fees, the inquiry into child sexual abuse has heard.In its first public seminar, the independent inquiry chaired by Prof Alexis Jay was also told that proposals to introduce a fixed costs regime could add a further barrier to justice.Luke Daniels, a solicitor with the firm Irwin Mitchell, said it now costs £10,000 to issue a claim. Some cases were later dropped because the costs involved were deemed by the Legal Aid Agency to be disproportionate to any likely future award. Peter Garsden, a solicitor with Simpson Millar and president of the Association of Child Abuse Lawyers, said legal aid had been cut back heavily. “People who go through abuse cases are generally unable to work,” he said, “and from the lower income thresholds. “There’s a poverty gap where you can’t afford civil litigation but don’t qualify for public funding. The equity in your house is taken into account [in testing entitlement to legal aid].Garsden added: “Persuading the Legal Aid Agency that your case has merit is a huge amount of work. The special cases unit in Brighton require you to prove everything and take nothing on trust. Some [lawyers] don’t deal with legal aid because it requires so much effort.”Jonathan Bridge, a solicitor with the law firm Farleys in Manchester, said: “There are an increasingly large number of experts who will not work at legal aid rates. They will not prepare reports at legal aid rates. That’s particularly a problem with adult and child psychiatrists.”Dave Enright, of the solicitors firm Howe and Co in London, said there was consequently “a very small pool of practitioners”. He said: “It’s badly paid. The work is so complex and that’s part of the barrier.”Asked by counsel to the inquiry Peter Skelton QC whether that prevented access to justice, Enright replied: “Absolutely. Because there will be huge [advice] deserts around the country.” Large parts of the country did not have local lawyers who are experts on abuse.“There’s a chilling effect. The people who come to us are the tip of the iceberg. The overwhelming majority never come forward. They suffer from the chilling effect of these changes in legal funding by which they have to make financial judgments about whether or not to take cases forward.”Most claims for abuse are settled for relatively modest sums, according to evidence from solicitors who specialise in sexual abuse cases. Richard Scorer, of the law firm Slater and Gordon, said: “Average awards are around £15,000, typically in the £10,000 to £40,000 range. “Big figure awards are very unusual. There’s a difficulty in proving loss of earnings. It’s usually a modest award for disadvantage in the labour market. The highest awards have been £600,000 to £700,000.”The oldest case of abuse Scorer said he had reached a settlement on dated back to 1955. Because of rules on limitations, he added, few were likely to succeed much before that date.Garsden said 80% of abuse involves someone already known to the victim. “Those are non-institutional cases,” he said. “They are deserving but can you pursue them?”Cases against institutions mostly date from the 1960s to the mid-1980s before foster care became more common. “What all survivors of abuse want is their day in court and to be believed and to be listened to,” Garsden said.A further threat to litigation, the solicitors explained, is a new regime of fixed costs for all claims. Lord Justice Jackson has been commissioned to undertake a review of fixed recoverable costs, to be completed by July 2017. “Fixed cost regimes would render most of these cases unviable,” Garsden added.Experts from the insurance world also gave evidence. They denied that new policies were being produced that included exclusion clauses for claims involving sexual molestation.One insurer insisted that his company would never suggest there had ever been consent to sexual offences by those aged under 16. The seminar was told, however, that the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority had in one unusual case considered a 14-year-old to have consented. An injured police officer whose wife wants doctors to withdraw life support treatment has shown some signs of improvement, a court has heard.But the court of protection hearing in Manchester heard that PC Paul Briggs, 43, remained in a minimally conscious state and was still unable to consistently respond to yes or no questions using a buzzer.Briggs, whose wife, Lindsey, has asked the court to stop his treatment, sustained a brain haemorrhage, five fractures in his spine, bruising to internal organs and several other severe injuries in a crash in July last year.The Gulf war veteran, from Wirral, Merseyside, is being cared for at the Walton Centre in Liverpool.Specialist speech and language therapist Mary Ankers told the court there was still potential for Briggs to emerge from the minimally conscious state.She said: “His responses in terms of command following ... have certainly become more consistent.”The court heard staff would give Briggs a buzzer and ask him to press it, before moving on to ask him questions which he could respond to by pressing the buzzer once for yes or twice for no.Ankers said in 47 out of 64 sessions he had been able to respond to commands from staff at least once, which she said was an improvement on an assessment earlier this year.But she said his response to higher-level tasks was “highly inconsistent”.The judge, Mr Justice Charles, questioned whether one of the assessments, which had reported Briggs had responded to a number of questions using the buzzer, was “dodgy” as it did not follow the proper process.Ankers agreed the results of that session should be treated with great caution.The report showed Briggs had used the buzzer to answer a number of questions about himself and indicated yes when asked if he was in pain.The frozen food retailer Iceland is sending a “high-level delegation” to Reykjavik this week in an attempt to thaw relations with the Icelandic government after it launched legal action against the chain over the use of its name.Iceland Foods is urgently seeking a meeting with Iceland’s foreign ministry to set out “constructive proposals” that could help break the deadlock and resume a longstanding “peaceful coexistence” that it says has prevailed for nearly half a century.Iceland is challenging Iceland Foods’ exclusive ownership of the European-wide trademark registration for the word Iceland, which it says is preventing the country’s companies from promoting goods and services abroad.The Icelandic government claims the supermarket has “aggressively pursued” and won multiple cases against companies that use the word Iceland as part of its trademark, “even in cases when the products and services do not compete”.The supermarket’s founder and chief executive, Malcolm Walker, said on Tuesday: “A high-level delegation from Iceland [Foods] is preparing to fly to Reykjavik this week to begin negotiations, and we very much hope for a positive response and an early resolution of this issue.”The retailer’s company secretary and legal director, Duncan Vaughan, will be leading the delegation in the next few days, but it will not include Walker.Walker said: “We registered Iceland as our company name in 1970 and we have coexisted with the country called Iceland very happily ever since. They have made no contact with us to raise any concerns about trademark issues since 2012.“We have no desire whatsoever to stand in the way of Iceland the country making use of their own name to promote their own products, so long as it does not conflict or cause confusion with our own business. I am sure there is ample scope for an agreement that will allow both parties to continue to live and work amicably alongside each other.”The company, whose headquarters are in Deeside, has more than 800 stores in the UK and employs more than 23,000 staff. It holds a Europe-wide trademark registration for the word, and Iceland the country is seeking to invalidate the registration on the basis that it is “exceptionally broad and ambiguous in definition, often rendering the country’s firms unable to describe their products as Icelandic”.In a circular released last week, the government stated: “The government of Iceland is concerned that our country’s businesses are unable to promote themselves across Europe in association with their place of origin – a place of which we are rightly proud and enjoys a very positive national branding.”In an explanatory statement, the retailer added that it did not simply take its name from the Nordic state, but has a long history of close and friendly involvement with the country.“For seven years from 2005, Iceland Foods was under the control of Icelandic investors and later Icelandic banks. This relationship came to an end with the £1.5bn management buyout of the company in 2012, but Iceland the company has continued to have a warm relationship with Iceland the country through the ownership of three Iceland stores there, export sales of Iceland products to other retailers throughout the country, and sponsorship of the Icelandic national team in this year’s European football championships.”The retailer claimed “the closeness and friendliness of relations” was underlined when Walker welcomed then Icelandic prime minister, Halldór Ásgrimsson, on an official visit to Iceland’s Fulham Road store in south-west London in 2006.Magistrates are resigning in “considerable” numbers, the head of their national body has said, after scores of court closures and swingeing government cuts.Forty-seven magistrates courts have shut this year, one-tenth of courts in England and Wales, with significant numbers of judges resigning early from the unpaid position.Malcolm Richardson, the chairman of the Magistrates Association, said: “Magistrates deal with more than 90% of the criminal cases that come to court and they cost 1% of the HM Courts and Tribunal Service budget. But we’re getting a bit tired of being treated like the 1% and not the 90%.”The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) would not disclose the number of magistrates who had resigned this year, but the association said the figure was considerable.It comes after at least 75 magistrates resigned last year over the controversial criminal courts charge, which caused outrage among law groups before it was scrapped by Michael Gove.The mass resignations and court closures have left the magistracy stretched, Richardson said, adding that “nobody [in government] seems to have a plan” for the future of the volunteer judges.“There is no evidence of a strategy for the use of magistrates. What are we for the in 21st century? What are we for in the brave new world, which is starting to be revealed under the courts reform programme?” he said.“Magistrates feel they are not, and have not been, engaged with in the determination of what that future looks like … The consequences of that for some magistrates, particularly those who are getting towards retirement, is to say ‘why am I carrying on?’ It’s a difficult question to answer.”Three magistrates who have resigned or retired since September told the Guardian morale was at rock bottom among the judges, who are only paid expenses.They said magistrates felt ignored and unappreciated as a result of cost cutting, ranging from court closures to buildings falling into disrepair. More trivial money-saving measures, such as cutting back on coffee and newspapers in the judges’ quarters, and using cheaper, thinner paper, had also irritated the magistracy, they said.Janet Alcock, a Conservative councillor in Clitheroe, Lancashire, said she “resigned in despair” in September after 20 years as a magistrate. The role has been reduced to a “soul-destroying production line” of speeding fines and licence fee evasions, Alcock said, adding that she gave up encouraging people to become magistrates a long time ago.Alcock said she had become “extremely frustrated” at having to issue fines to defendants who would never be able to pay, and the victim surcharge, which “just seems to be another way of dressing up that they’re taking more money off them”.“You know, realistically, from the point of view of collecting the fines, you’re not going to get it, which makes it extremely frustrating,” she said. “Everybody’s always calling me ‘the hanging judge’ because I’m saying things like instead of fining people who can’t afford it, send them out working … Political correctness wouldn’t allow you to do anything like that.“But that would be far more satisfying to the public, I think, than for people to appear six months later owing even more than they did at the beginning. It’s just frustrating for everybody.”Myra Robinson, who retired last month as a bench chairman of Newcastle magistrates, said fining those who could not afford to pay was morally wrong, but there was little that magistrates could do about it. “It’s just ticking boxes and following down – if someone did this then that’s the punishment. There’s no flexibility,” she said.“I’d worked all my career with young offenders and kids with problems. I felt I knew a lot of the families with problems in Newcastle, and I could see behind what they’d just done and think what would be an appropriate way of dealing with it. My hands have been tied for many years now. People can’t afford fines.”A third recently resigned magistrate, who did not want to be named, said the court closures meant “losing local justice for local people”. In some cases, proposed closures meant it would be impossible for defendants or witnesses travelling by public transport to get to a court for 10am.“I was constantly getting emails or texts or phone calls to say that we urgently need magistrates to sit in places like Scarborough. That would imply there is a shortage,” said the magistrate, who was based nearly 90 miles (145km) away in Halifax, west Yorkshire.Forty-seven magistrates courts closed their doors between March and September under government proposals to reduce the £500m annual cost of the courts estate. A further 45 are due to shut by September 2017, meaning one-fifth of all courts in England and Wales will have disappeared in 19 months.An MoJ spokeswoman said: “The magistracy remains at the heart of our justice system. We are investing £1bn to reform and digitise our courts to deliver swifter justice, and we are working closely with the judiciary to encourage the recruitment of underrepresented groups.“Closing underused and dilapidated court buildings will allow us to reinvest in the justice system and make the best use of technology, improving the experience for all court users, in particular vulnerable victims and witnesses.”With Nigeria’s parliament poised to extend a controversial law banning the “menace of street begging” throughout the country, campaigners are warning the policy has already resulted in the persecution of tens of thousands of disabled and mentally ill citizens.Street begging is illegal in Lagos, Nigeria’s most populous city, and carries fines of around N15,000 (£38) and up to three months’ imprisonment. Those who fail to pay the fine are incarcerated until they are able to pay up.But due to poor medical support, the people begging on Lagos’s street are disproportionately made up of mentally ill and disabled citizens, and human rights activists say tens of thousands of vulnerable people have been detained over the past five years as a result of the ban.Megan Chapman, a human rights lawyer and director of the local NGO Justice and Empowerment Initiatives (JEI), said the “scale of human rights violations is massive and extremely concerning”, and added the treatment may be illegal under the country’s constitution.Though campaigners from JEI acknowledged that begging is also banned in other cities across the world, they claim the ban is policed brutally and without transparency in Lagos. “It’s hard to find a city enforcing the ban in as inhumane a way as Lagos is,” Chapman said.Despite widespread calls from NGOs and activists for the state to reconsider its policy, the Nigerian senate is now considering a bill to ban begging nationwide.The bill, proposed by Senator Isah Misau, has substantial backing in the senate, with lawmakers claiming the increase in begging is caused by criminal exploitation rather than poor economic conditions in Nigeria, which is now officially in recession.Speaking in support of the proposed legislation, Misau said: “Street begging affects not only the geographical and social structure of urban areas; it also portrays the country in a bad light to tourists and foreign visitors.”Lagos state’s governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, has backed the crackdown on street begging. “We’ve had security reports on the activities of persons who pose as beggars, especially in traffic, but their sole aim is to perpetrate evil,” he said in July.The state government said in April that 1,340 beggars, destitute and “mentally challenged persons” had been “rescued” from the streets of Lagos in the past year. During this period, it said 590 “rehabilitees” had been released and reunited with their relatives for re-integration, while 1,228 people were rehabilitated at what it referred to as a “rehabilitation and training centre” in Majidun, on mainland Lagos.In addition, according to a leaked memo cited on the Nigerian site PM News, 413 beggars and “lunatics” were reportedly evacuated from Lagos’s streets by government officials between March and July this year.Most of those detained for begging are taken to the holding facility by the so-called “rescue team” from the Lagos State Youth and Development Ministry, which enforces the ban.The centre was opened as part of a drive to clean up the city in the 1970s. State officials claim it is used to help and treat beggars and people who are physically or mentally ill, yet reports from former detainees paint a different picture.Men and women held there have described torturous conditions, claiming to have been denied basic rights and medical attention, held in confined spaces, often for years, without a fair hearing.“We have met dozens of people arrested for begging who have been made to pay a hefty bribe, who have been deprived of their liberty for months or even years. Not one of them has ever been taken before a court of law. It is a serious violation of their rights under the Nigerian constitution,” she said.“What we’ve been pressing the state government to do is to have a root and branch overhaul of the system; stop the mass incarcerations that impact on the health and well-being of the beggars.”Workers from JEI, along with the Physically Challenged Empowerment Initiative (PCEI), a grassroots organisation campaigning against the detentions, have looked after several people after their release from the centre.Among them was 25-year-old Yakubu Idris. After his arrest and 20-month detention at the Majidun facility, his health deteriorated. Interviewed hours after his release, he said: “Now I cannot walk – I cannot even stand up from the floor.”Despite suffering from extensive infections and a respiratory problem, Idris said he was denied medical treatment by officials at the facility. “In the cell I totally forgot how long I was there because I was never let out. Then one day theoga [boss] took two of us and released us,” he said.A week later, tests for tuberculosis came back positive, but Idris died before he could receive treatment.Chapman said calls for change by local NGOs were slowly being heeded, but the proposed bill threatened to undermine years of work to change attitudes towards beggars.“We have pointed out that current practices are completely unconstitutional and fail to address the social problems of destitution and street begging. The focus should be on helping the poor and people living with disabilities to find alternative livelihoods,” she said.Under the previous Lagos state governor, scores of beggars were routinely deported to their states of origin. In 2011, 3,029 people were deported from Lagos. Dolapo Badru, a state government spokesman at the time, defended the measures, arguing that “beggars and destitutes constitute a social nuisance towards the development of Lagos as a mega-city”.Muhammed Zanna, one of the founders of the PCEI in Lagos said negative perceptions of the poor had led to widespread apathy about the way they are treated by the state.“Governor Ambode wants to create a modern city and the poor don’t fit into that vision,” said Zanna.“The state doesn’t see beggars as real people, just as people to hide or to send away. People who have no interaction with the poor or disabled have this idea that they are really criminals and drug dealers, so even when the state services maltreats them people don’t show any concern,” Zanna said.State officials at the youth ministry did not respond to requests for comment.Officials at the facility in Majidun denied detainees were kept in harsh conditions indefinitely or denied basic rights, and claimed a doctor was available to provide treatment. They also say it is merely “a temporary holding site” until fines are paid or a hearing takes place.Forty-year-old Binta Muhammadu was arrested in February with her two children, aged two and four. When she couldn’t pay the fine, she was detained at Majidun for nine months, with her children held elsewhere. “In that time I only saw my children three times,” she said.According to Binta, “there were about 50 of us in the same room, where we bathed, ate and slept. We were never let out,” she said.“I don’t know what I will do now that I am free,” she added. “I don’t have anything and I can’t walk well any more. This has just made things worse for me than it was before.”At the heart of the latest allegations swirling around George Brandis, the chronically dysfunctional first law officer, is the claim that he failed in his duty to protect the constitution and the revenue in order to perform a favour to political soulmates in the government of Western Australia.That was what the West Australian newspaper said on Friday, in a useful article that tied together some of the loose strands still flapping in the wake of Brandis’ entanglement with the former solicitor general, Justin Gleeson.If the allegation is true then it would be unconscionable for Brandis to remain attorney general.It was asserted by the paper that Brandis instructed the solicitor general not to run an argument in the high court on behalf of the commissioner of taxation that would jeopardise legislation passed by the Western Australian parliament to close down the long-running Bell litigation, where creditors were fighting over the carve-up of assets from the carcass of Alan Bond’s corporate interests.Instead of lawyers in court scrapping over money, the WA government wanted to take control and arrange its own scheme of distribution. This was of immediate concern to the commissioner of taxation, who was in line for $300m in unpaid Bell taxes and concerned that he would be at the mercy of bureaucrats in Perth.The Bell Act sought to alter, impair and detract from the commonwealth’s ability to enforce the recovery of a tax debt.Gleeson thought it was constitutional law 101 that the WA legislation ran foul of the conflict of laws provision of the constitution.The Taxation Commission sought the solicitor general’s advice and was told there was an excellent chance the high court would find what the law men from the wild west had done was invalid, which it duly found in May this year.Brandis made a statement to the Senate on Monday, where for all the world he looked like a man whose career was balanced on eggshells. He said it was absurd for the opposition to say that he had “failed sufficiently to protect the interests of the commonwealth”.There are a couple of things to note about those dates. The ATO intervened in the high court case on 8 March, while Brandis only allowed the commonwealth to get its foot in the door six days before the argument kicked off in the high court on 5 April.One possible explanation for this delay was that the attorney general was trying to keep faith with the Western Australian Liberals, by at least staying the commonwealth’s hand, even though the ATO had independently decided to press ahead.It was only when Gleeson came to see the attorney general sometime before 30 March, to insist that the commonwealth should intervene in the litigation that the government’s senior lawyers got the green light to be involved.Brandis has tried to suggest that the commonwealth didn’t need to get involved because the commissioner of taxation had mounted his horse.One other thing – it doesn’t wash for him to claim that the letters between Hockey and the WA treasurer, Mike Nahan, are not evidence of an agreement between the state and federal government. If anything, Hockey’s letter gives the Western Australians a great big, gleaming green light to press ahead with their Bell legislation. All the commonwealth treasurer was concerned about was ensuring Australia is an attractive destination for foreign investment. Here’s Hockey:We actually have to go to the high court transcripts to get further and better particulars as to what went on.On 8 February, seven weeks before the commonwealth intervened in the litigation, there was a directions hearing in the high court.Dr James Watson, instructed by the Australian government solicitor, appeared and told Justice Virginia Bell:One implication of what Watson told the court on 8 February was that the AG was still to decide on something he had in contemplation – yet the Senate was told that the first that Brandis had any “personal involvement” was 3 March.This is something that any inquiry by a Senate committee might tease out.The alternative position is that the government solicitor was acting without the attorney general’s knowledge, which stretches incredulity when it comes to a control freak like George Brandis, particularly in a high profile piece of politically sensitive litigation.On the same day (8 February) barrister Anthony D’Arcy appeared for the Bell plaintiffs and said that his clients wanted a special case that embraced the legislation’s inconsistencies with both the Tax Act and the Corporations Act.In other words, while Brandis later indicated he was chewing his fingernails about whether it was preferable to engage the Tax Act argument alone, the plaintiffs seven weeks earlier were pressing for an all-in case that included the Corporations Act.The questions that Brandis’ statement to parliament did not answer are these:A casual observer might think that protecting the commonwealth’s interests would involve getting on the bus from day one, not three weeks after the tax office was on the case and seven weeks after the AGS lawyers told the court the AG “has not yet made the decision to intervene”.Then there is the timing of the 4 May super-duper Legal Services Direction, which required all government agencies (including the Commissioner of Taxation) to seek the attorney general’s approval before running off and getting advice from Gleeson. The attorney issued that direction 12 days before the high court handed down its decision.All very puzzling. No doubt Justin Gleeson could clear up the confusion if he was asked to give evidence to another performance of the legal and constitutional affairs committee.In the meantime, the lawyers can get back to feasting on the 25-year banquet that is the Bell creditors’ litigation.The regime at the category C Hindley jail near Wigan is “one of the worst and possibly one of the very worst that inspectors had ever seen in this type of prison”, an official watchdog report has said.The chief inspector of prisons, Peter Clarke, said the Hindley regime includes regular shutdowns when inmates, including young adults, are locked in their cells for more than 24 hours at a time.His report published on Tuesday also highlights poor food, including mouldy bread, filthy cells, and a high level of violence with 126 assaults in just six months, including 35 fights. Half the prisoners told inspectors it was easy to get hold of illegal drugs, which were more accessible than clean clothes, sheets or books from the library.Peter Dawson, the director of the Prison Reform Trust, said although they were used to dreadful inspection reports about dilapidated, overcrowded Victorian prisons, HMP Hindley “is none of these things, and this damning verdict is all the more troubling as a result”.The latest critical inspection report comes after peers in the House of Lords cited the record level of prison suicides so far this year. Justice ministers responded by acknowledging the seriousness of the crisis and highlighting their plans to recruit 2,500 more prison officers, including 400 immediately for the 10 most challenged prisons.Hindley in Greater Manchester opened in 1961 as a borstal and in 2015 was converted from a youth jail into a category C prison for young offenders and adult males serving sentences of up to four years.The inspection was carried out in July, when the jail held 515 inmates and was within its operational capacity.But the inspectors found a “totally inadequate regime” in which more than two-thirds of prisoners said they received less than six hours a day out of their cells and many experienced less than that on a daily basis.“The inadequate regime was made worse by significant slippage and regular shutdowns, which meant that most prisoners regularly experienced being locked in their cells for more than 24 hours. As a result, prisoners were often not unlocked to attend work or education, and were denied daily access to showers and telephones,” the report said.Residential wings and landings were dirty, with inspectors finding mould and fungus, while single cells were small and poorly ventilated, and many were filthy.“The regime at Hindley was one of the worst, and possibly the very worst, that inspectors had ever seen in this type of prison,” said Clarke. “The length of time for which young adults and adults alike were locked up was, in our considered view, unnecessary, unjustifiable and counterproductive. Almost every aspect of prison life was adversely affected by the regime.”He cited the problem of the staff association opposing a move to put microwaves on the wings as “symptomatic of what seemed to have gone wrong at Hindley”. He said many prisoners locked up all day only received a hot meal at 4pm and were given an inadequate breakfast pack to see them through to lunchtime the next day. A move to install microwaves would have been an improvement but “good intentions were not being translated into action on the wings”.He added: “To make progress, there needs to be a very clear recognition of what is good at Hindley, and also where there needs to be fundamental change. Many examples of good practice could be found in the chaplaincy, education and healthcare. The same could not be said for residential areas. There needs to be an honest appraisal of the culture that predominates among some staff in these areas.”Michael Spurr, the chief executive of the National Offender Management Service, said since the inspection a detailed improvement plan had been developed to address the weaknesses identified by inspectors.“Progress has been made to improve safety and purposeful activity with more prisoners engaged in high-quality work and training opportunities,” said Spurr.“Additional staff have been transferred into the prison to support the improvements required and the governor is working closely with Greater Manchester police to tackle gang behaviour and violence in the prison.”Paul Briggs has been minimally conscious since last year and court of protection will decide whether he will be allowed to dieFor the past four months, Turkey’s leader has subjected his country to sweeping political purges – but there are few signs of an end soon. The new announcement that 6,000 teachers will be reinstated in their jobs after having been suspended is a welcome gesture but does little to reduce the level of tension.Since the mid-July failed coup attempt against Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s regime, the president has orchestrated what amounts to a counter-coup. What Mr Erdoğan sees as a clean-up of the Turkish body politic looks like the biggest purge in Turkey’s modern history. More than 125,000 people have been dismissed or suspended and around 40,000 others arrested. Amnesty says there are “credible reports” of detainees being subjected to “beatings and torture, including rape”. Judges, military personnel and professors have lost their jobs.While democracy should not have been usurped by the military, there are justifiable concerns about where Mr Erdoğan is going. A state of emergency allows him to rule by decree. Those affected are opponents of the ruling AK party. Kurdish activist groups and people suspected of links to the Fetullah Gülen network find themselves bracketed with Isis militants. Media freedom has been dramatically crushed. On 12 November the executive director of the pro-democracy newspaper Cumhuriyet was detained. Nine of its journalists had already been arrested.Turkey’s western allies are alarmed, but against a complex geopolitical backdrop, they have chosen discretion rather than valour. After the EU parliament last week voted to freeze EU accession talks with Turkey, Mr Erdoğan lashed out by threatening to open the country’s borders to migrants heading to Europe. This is tantamount to blackmail. If the president made good it would collapse the EU-Turkey deal negotiated by Angela Merkel which saw Ankara agree to take back refugees in exchange for billions in aid, ease travel restrictions for Turks and refresh EU membership talks. The hope in European capitals is that Mr Erdoğan will not want to destroy the agreement: visa-free travel to Europe remains a popular prospect for Turks.By fanning nationalist sentiment, Mr Erdoğan wants to reach his long-held goal of changing the Turkish constitution in a way that would enlarge and concentrate powers in the presidency. One proposal would see Mr Erdogan in office until 2029. But both the EU and Turkey’s strongman appear to suffer from a bout of magical thinking. There is currently no consensus in Europe for further rapprochement with a regime whose authoritarianism is blatantly on the rise. Nor is Mr Erdoğan ready to abandon the leverage he publicly claims to have with European governments. The lifting of visas hinges on Turkey rescinding the anti-terrorism legislation, which Mr Erdoğan uses to repress dissent – and he shows no appetite of giving up. An October deadline came and went, with no progress whatsoever.No one, whether in Brussels or Ankara, is ready to cut off talks. The stalemate plays to both sides’ interests. This might change if Mr Erdoğan reintroduces the death penalty, as he has threatened to: the EU has said this would end accession talks. Meanwhile, the grinding machine of political repression continues in Turkey, whose rapprochement with Vladimir Putin’s Russia has become a stark new feature of its foreign policy – with western allies left to contemplate their lack of sway.Paul Briggs has been minimally conscious since last year and court of protection will decide whether he will be allowed to dieHarsh personal attacks on judges are bad for democracy and in danger of diminishing the independence of the judiciary, the former deputy president of the supreme court has warned.In a forceful defence of the court’s justices ahead of next week’s pivotal article 50 appeal hearing, Lord Hope, who retired in 2013, said recent attacks had gone far beyond legitimate criticism. He revealed that a scheduled speech about the law and Europe by a supreme justice, Lord Mance, had to be cancelled because of heightened political sensitivity over the European Union and Brexit.His comments come in the wake of a Daily Mail front page that branded the three high court judges who decided the article 50 case “enemies of the people” and media attacks on the supreme court president, Lord Neuberger, and the deputy president, Lady Hale.“Things have been happening which have made the lives of those wishing to come into the judiciary much less [free],” Hope told a meeting hosted by the centre right thinktank Policy Exchange. “We run the risk of a diminished judiciary as a result. Recently the criticism has been taken too far and [there have been] harsh personal attacks.”Hope said he had suffered from “wounding” personal attacks in the past. “It’s bad for democracy,” he added. “Every lecture given by members of the supreme court and [even] sentences are being taken out of context.“Supreme court judges do give and publish lectures as part of their public [role]. This [excessive criticism] runs the risk of closing things down. At least one lecture [Lord Mance’s] was taken out in case it excites that sort of comment.”The supreme court will next week hear the appeal by the government against the high court ruling that only parliament, as opposed to ministers, has the authority to trigger article 50 of the treaty on the European Union, which will formally start the UK’s withdrawal from the EU. In recognition of the unprecedented case’s constitutional importance, 11 supreme court justices will hear the arguments.Addressing the Policy Exchange meeting, the former editor of the Daily Telegraph, Charles Moore, called on Neuberger and Hale to “recuse” themselves and stand down from the bench because of their alleged impartiality.He accused Hale of giving a detailed speech on the issues in the article 50 case before hearing it and of introducing new questions about potential parliamentary procedure which had not been discussed in the high court case. Moore also said pro-European tweets by Neuberger’s wife constituted political activity.Judges, Moore said, were traditionally considered to be the guardians of the constitution and the “lions under the throne”. Have they now become “snakes in the grass?”, he asked.“The great majority of judges are very pro-human rights and pro-Europe,” he added. “Is there enough diversity of opinion on the supreme court? They should be independent of one another or is it group think?” The former home secretary and Conservative party leader, Michael Howard, accused Hale of “getting her retaliation in first” by delivering a speech ahead of the case. “It was wholly undesirable,” he said.Although the Brexit case was not an example of judicial overreach, Lord Howard said there was evidence of a “judicial grab for power”. Since judges are “unaccountable” it would be “monstrous” if criticism of the judiciary were to be curtailed. “It’s of the utmost importance that the judiciary should not be immune from robust criticism,” he said.Responding to attacks on the justices, a supreme court spokesperson said: “The role of the justices is to consider the points of law presented to them impartially, and to fulfil their judicial oath in reaching a decision according to the law. No evidence has been presented that would suggest any justice of the supreme court has compromised their ability to fulfil that duty.”In statements earlier this month, the court defended Neuberger and Hale. A court spokesperson said: “Justices’ spouses are fully entitled to express personal opinions, including on issues of the day. Lady Neuberger’s passing comments on Twitter have absolutely no bearing on Lord Neuberger’s ability to determine the legal questions in this case impartially, according to the law of the land.”In relation to Hale’s speech, a supreme court spokesperson said: “Lady Hale was simply presenting the arguments from both sides of the article 50 appeal in an impartial way for an audience of law students, as part of a wider lecture on constitutional law. It is entirely proper for serving judges to set out the arguments in high-profile cases to help public understanding of the legal issues, as long as it is done in an even-handed way.“One of the questions raised in these proceedings is what form of legislation would be necessary for parliament to be able to lawfully trigger article 50, if the government loses its appeal. A number of politicians have raised the same question. Though it was not dealt with explicitly in the high court judgment, it is not a new issue. In no way was Lady Hale offering a view on what the likely outcome might be.”The British government is facing a new legal challenge over whether it should seek to retain membership of the single market during the Brexit process. Lawyers will argue that June’s referendum asked the public a single question over whether the UK should leave the EU, and did not delve into the more complex issue of economic access.The group British Influence will use a judicial review to suggest the government could be acting unlawfully if it uses Brexit to also leave the wider European Economic Area – through which non-EU countries such as Norway are inside the single market.It is the second legal challenge faced by ministers over the process of leaving the EU. The government’s appeal to the recent high court ruling that only parliament has the power to formally trigger Brexit will be heard next week.Jonathan Lis, the deputy director of British Influence, said: “The single market wasn’t on the ballot paper. To leave it would be devastating for the economy, smash our free trading arrangement and put thousands of jobs at risk. Why should people not only throw the baby out with the bath water, but the bath out of the window?”His group will claim that Croatia provides an example of a country joining the EU and EEA separately, so identifying them as discrete groupings, and will cite research by senior academics on the issue.“This is not an anti-Brexit measure,” he added.But the government made clear it did not believe any attempt at a legal challenge would be successful, with Theresa May’s official spokeswoman insisting that Brexit meant leaving both organisations.“Our position is clear, which is that the UK is only party to the EEA agreement in its capacity as an EU member state and once we leave the European Union we will automatically cease to be a member of the EEA – that is the legal framework,” she said.A leading authority on European law also poured cold water on the idea. Jean-Claude Piris, a former head of the European council’s legal service, who served as official legal counsel on EU treaties, including Maastricht, Nice and Lisbon, said after Brexit the UK would not remain in the EEA.“The UK’s withdrawal from EU will mean an automatic cessation of its membership of EEA as an EEA-EU member,” he said. “In order to become an EEA member you have either to be an EU member or an EFTA member.”Non-EU countries have created the European Free Trade Association to promote economic ties. Current members are Norway, Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein.The UK was a founding member of EFTA, but left to join the European Community in 1973. Norway has warned it could block any attempt by the UK to rejoin EFTA.The legal skirmish underscores the mind-boggling complexity of Brexit that will dominate the government’s agenda for years to come.British Influence, which has written to David Davis, the Brexit secretary, suggests the government should not just be focusing on article 50 of the treaty on European Union, but on articles 127 and 128 of the EEA agreement.It says there is no legal consensus that the UK is only “a contracting party to the EEA only as a member of the EU. There are numerous reasons why it may be a member in its own right: article 127 of the EEA agreement, for example, requires members to give 12 months’ notification to leave, without any reference to article 50; article 128 states that countries acceding to the EU ‘may’ apply to join the EEA, but are not compelled to.”However, the government and Piris both pointed to another article – 126.May’s spokeswoman said it represented “the first paragraph on membership in the EEA agreement – that says that it applies to the territories to which the treaty establishing the European Economic Community is applied and under the conditions laid out under that treaty.“Clearly, if you are leaving the European Union you are coming out of that so it does not apply.”In theory, the dispute could be resolved by the European court of justice. Instead, she said May was focused on getting Britain the best deal and would do that.A woman who has asked a court to withdraw life support treatment for her husband broke down in tears as she described his condition.The court of protection heard police officer and Gulf war veteran Paul Briggs, 43, from Merseyside, was in a minimally conscious state following a car crash in July 2015.The father of one, who is being treated at the Walton Centre in Liverpool, suffered a bleed on the brain, five fractures in his spine, bruising to internal organs and several other severe injuries in the collision.His wife, Lindsey, mother to his daughter Ella, five, told the hearing in Manchester on Monday he did not recognise her or respond to her when she went to see him. She said: “The most important thing to him is independence. He is the kind of person who lives for the moment.”She added: “He was a loving dad to his daughter, he would want to bring his daughter up.”The court heard medical experts predicted that even in a best case scenario, Briggs would remain severely physically disabled.Lindsey said: “I think he would see it as torture, just as hell, that everything he believes in and he lives for would just be taken away from him. He would be living for no reason.”She said when she looked into his eyes she saw “at best, nothing there, or at worst, distress or suffering”.But Conrad Hallin, representing the Walton Centre NHS foundation trust and the Wirral clinical commissioning group, said doctors had noticed some signs of improvement in his condition.The life expectancy of people in Briggs’s condition is estimated to be nine to 10 years.His wife told the court he had been active, sociable and a “hands-on father” before the crash. Asked what he might think of his situation now, she said: “If he is able to think, I think he would be horrified. Horrified for his daughter, that she’s scared of him.”Briggs’s mother, Jan, said: “Every time I see Paul I can’t help thinking about the person he was and it’s very, very difficult to see him as he is now.”She told the hearing she went to see him at least twice a week. She said: “It is very hard, but I think you just cling to that hope that he may recognise you or give some response. You just cling to that hope even though you know that it’s unlikely.”She added: “I just don’t want him to suffer any more.”The hearing is expected to last four days.Chelsea Rowe, 26, received a 12-month prison term in July after admitting causing serious injury to Briggs by dangerous driving.Liverpool crown court heard Rowe was driving a Nissan Micra that was in a head-on collision with Briggs’s motorcycle on the Birkenhead flyover.A German federal court has thrown out a 95-year-old former Auschwitz death camp guard’s appeal against his conviction for being an accessory to murder.The decision to uphold Oskar Gröning’s conviction sets an important precedent for German prosecutors’ efforts to pursue others who allegedly served at Nazi death camps.Gröning was convicted in July 2015 of being an accessory to the murder of 300,000 Jews and sentenced by a court in Lüneburg to four years in prison.Gröning testified at his trial that he oversaw the collection of prisoners’ belongings and ensured valuables and cash were separated to be sent to Berlin. He said he witnessed individual atrocities, but did not acknowledge participating in any crimes.On Monday, the federal court of justice said it had thrown out Gröning’s appeal. It also rejected appeals from several survivors and their relatives who had joined the trial as co-plaintiffs, as is allowed under German law, and had sought more serious charges.It is the first time an appeals court has ruled on a conviction obtained under the logic that serving at a death camp, and thus helping it operate, was enough to convict someone as an accessory to the murders committed there – even if there was no evidence of involvement in a specific killing.At the original trial, the presiding judge, Franz Kompisch, said Gröning was part of the “machinery of death,” helping the camp function and also collecting money stolen from the victims to help the Nazi cause.The federal court noted that Gröning’s responsibilities had included keeping watch on the inmates and preventing resistance or attempts to flee by force.In 2011, John Demjanjuk, a former Ohio autoworker, became the first person convicted in Germany solely for serving as a death camp guard without evidence of being involved in a specific killing. Demjanjuk, who always denied serving at the Sobibor camp, died before his appeal could be heard.Across four Eternit factories in Italy, thousands of workers became victims of asbestos inhalation. Their case against the company was overturned . The legal challenge is being restarted this month. Photographer Alfredo Covino has been following their plight . All photographs: Alfredo CovinoMore than 100 people have killed themselves in prisons in England and Wales so far this year, , according to penal reform groups, prompting warnings of a mental health epidemic within the incarcerated population.The Howard League for Penal Reform said it had been notified of the deaths by suicide of 102 people up until 18 November – the equivalent of one every three days and breaking the record for frequency of suicides.“With five weeks remaining until the end of the year, it is already the highest death toll in a calendar year since recording practices began in 1978,” said Frances Crook, the director of the Howard League. “The previous high was in 2004 when 96 deaths by suicide were recorded.”Crookwho is meeting the justice secretary, Elizabeth Truss, on Monday, said: “The number of people dying by suicide in prison has reached epidemic proportions. No one should be so desperate while in the care of the state that they take their own life and yet, every three days, a family is told that a loved one has died behind bars.“By taking bold but sensible action to reduce the number of people in prison, we can save lives and prevent more people being swept away into deeper currents of crime and despair.”The current rate of self-inflicted deaths in prisons across England and Wales of nearly 10 a month means the final toll for 2016 could be as high as 115, compared with 89 in 2015.A joint report, Preventing Prison Suicide by the Howard League and the Centre for Mental Health, links the rise in the number of prison suicides to cuts to staffing and budgets and the rise in the number of people in prison that has resulted in overcrowding.]“Violence has increased and safety has deteriorated. Prisoners are spending up to 23 hours a day locked in their cells, the imposition of prison punishments has increased and a more punitive daily regime was introduced in prisons at the same time as the number of deaths by suicide began to rise,” it says. “The prison suicide rate, at 120 deaths per 100,000 people, is about 10 times higher than the rate in the general population.”The report calls for a recently revised incentives and earned privileges regime to be scrapped and for an undertaking that prisoners with mental health problems or at known risk of suicide should never be placed in solitary.The Howard League’s figures show that the highest number of self-inflicted deaths – six – this year have been at Woodhill prison, Buckinghamshire, which is at the centre of a high court legal battle.Mr Justice Lavender gave permission on Thursday for a judicial review case to be heard, saying that evidence of repeated failures to implement policies to prevent self-inflicted deaths at Woodhill could not be dismissed as “operational failures”.It has also emerged that an independent monitoring board at Bedford prison, which has had four deaths so far this year, wrote “an urgent letter of concern” to the prisons minister about the “alarming rise in prisoners attempting to hang themselves” at the jail before its recent riot. They highlighted that staffing shortages were “beyond crisis point”.An independent monitoring board report published on Monday into Bullingdon prison in Oxfordshire warns that inadequate staffing is also damaging morale and relationships with prisoners.“The board is concerned about increasing difficulties in recruiting and retaining sufficient officers to maintain levels defined as acceptable by the prison service. It has also observed that indiscipline and violence have increased noticeably since staff cutbacks were implemented in 2013,” says the Bullingdon report.The chancellor, Philip Hammond, confirmed in the autumn statement last week that an extra £555m over the next three years would be made available to fund prison safety measures, including the recruitment of 2,500 extra prison officers.A Ministry of Justice spokesperson said that mental health in custody was taken extremely seriously: “Providing the right intervention and treatment is vital to improving the outcomes for people who are suffering and all prisons have established procedures in place to identify, manage and support people with mental health issues.“But we recognise that more can be done. That is why have invested in specialist mental health training for prison officers, allocated more funding for prison safety and have launched a suicide and self-harm reduction project to address the increase in self-inflicted deaths and self-harm in our prisons.”Labour to push for fairer access to the justice systemConstitutional lawyers and White House ethics counsellors from Democratic and Republican administrations have warned Donald Trump his presidency might be blocked by the electoral college if he does not give up ownership of at least some of his business empire.“The brand is certainly a hotter brand than it was before,” Donald Trump told the New York Times on Wednesday, and his election victory buzz does indeed seem to have been good for business.Since the surprise outcome of the 8 November vote, foreign diplomats have been flocking to the newest Trump hotel in Washington to hear sales pitches about the business and vie to book their delegations into its rooms overlooking Pennsylvania Avenue for the inauguration on 20 January.Trump, meanwhile, used a meeting with a delegation of Brexit activists including his closest British ally, Nigel Farage, to urge them to oppose wind farms which he felt would spoil the view from one of his Scottish golf courses. He also took time out from selecting cabinet officials to meet his Indian business partners and pose for pictures with them, while the Philippines government announced it was appointing his business partner in Manila as its next ambassador to Washington.A day after a phone conversation between President-elect Trump and Argentinian president Mauricio Macri, Trump’s Argentinian associate – who was reported to have organised the call – confidently predicted that construction would start next year on the planned Trump Tower Buenos Aires, to be completed by 2020.The associate, Felipe Yaryura, seemed supremely confident that the zoning restrictions that had stalled the project for years would soon be swept away.In his interview at the New York Times, Trump insisted he no longer cared about his business interests.“My company is so unimportant to me relative to what I’m doing, ’cause I don’t need money, I don’t need anything,” he said. “The only thing that matters to me is running our country.”Yet much of what he has said and done since winning the election suggests that Trump comes to the presidency in the spirit of a tycoon making a new acquisition, overseeing the merger of Trump Inc and America Inc – a merger in which it is far from clear which would be the senior partner.“It clearly degrades the presidency,” said Ian Bremmer, a political scientist and president of the Eurasia Group, a global political risk research and consulting firm.“It is going to undermine the legitimacy of the US around the world. Soft power has been about being able to project values. That already took a hit. It really comes to an end with this election.”Although the president-elect claims to have handed the day-to-day running of the Trump Organization to some of his children, he has so far retained his ownership stake and those same children are sitting in on his meetings with foreign leaders. Ivanka Trump, for example, was in the room during the president-elect’s first meeting with a foreign leader, Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe.A few moments after expressing indifference to the fate of his business, Trump claimed: “In theory, I could run my business perfectly, and then run the country perfectly.“And there’s never been a case like this where somebody’s had, like, if you look at other people of wealth, they didn’t have this kind of asset and this kind of wealth, frankly. It’s just a different thing.”The US has certainly never had a commander-in-chief like Trump. When the constitution was written, the founding fathers wrote the rules so that people like themselves, whom they expected to fill the presidency, could do so without having to sell off plantations or slaves.The president is exempt from conflict-of-interest laws that constrain other office holders. The discovery of this loophole seems to have surprised and delighted Trump.“As far as the potential conflict of interests,” Trump said, “the law is totally on my side, meaning, the president can’t have a conflict of interest.”The remarks were reminiscent, for presidential historians at least, of an earlier president who claimed that “when the president does it, that means it is not illegal”.It was an interpretation of executive power that did not work out well for the US, nor for the president in question, Richard Nixon.Constitutional lawyers are now warning that Trump’s presidency is in danger of going the same way as Nixon’s before it even gets started. Some say that unless Trump takes urgent steps to fully divest himself from his business interests, he might not even enter the Oval Office as president.Trump seems to have received only a partial legal briefing on his exposure. Although the conflict-of-interest clauses do have a loophole for presidents, there is no such loophole for the “emoluments clause”, Article I, Section 9 of the constitution, which prohibits public officials from taking payments “of any kind whatever from any king, prince or foreign state”.“Trump was totally wrong when he said the conflict of interest doesn’t apply to me,” said Norman Eisen, a former ethics counsellor to the Obama administration. “It shows he doesn’t know the constitution.“The most fundamental conflict clause in the US constitution is the prohibition on emoluments on payments, presents or other things of value being given to American political officials including the president.”Eisen, now a fellow at the Brookings Institution, added: “Because of [Trump’s] international investments he gets these payments, presents and things of value and he’ll be in violation of the constitution by the moment he takes the oath of office.”Before Trump can even take that oath, he will have to be elected by the electoral college, another legacy of the founding fathers.Under the constitution, this year on 8 November Americans chose electors, who are usually party officials, to represent their states in the electoral college. It is now up to those 538 electors to choose the president, when the college votes on 19 December. “Faithless electors” have in the past gone against the wishes of those who chose them, but never in such numbers as to change the outcome of an election.The electors are under more pressure than usual because although Trump won the majority of seats in the electoral college, he lost the nationwide popular vote to Hillary Clinton by 2m ballots. Some legal experts argue that the electoral college cannot approve a candidate like Trump, who does not fulfil the basic legal requirements to be president.Harvard constitutional law professor Laurence Tribe said in an email that the “electors who are to cast their votes for president on 19 December not as automatons but in light of constitutional constraints and principles cannot in good conscience vote for Donald Trump as president of the United States unless he fully divests himself of economic interests dependent on the fortunes, for good or ill, of the private Trump empire”.That view is not restricted to academics and Democrats. Richard Painter, George W Bush’s chief ethics counsel, agrees that without a major reconfiguration of the Trump Organization, the president-elect is heading for a constitutional collision with the electoral college.“The important thing for the electoral college is to ensure that he technically complies with the constitution,” Painter told the Observer. “This is just as important as the birth certificate. He should not be currently on the payroll of foreign governments.“So he’ll have to provide assurance to the electoral college that he’s not himself going to be getting money from foreign governments that would violate the emoluments clause.”It is implausible that Trump and his lawyers could offer such assurances without completely severing his links with his business operation. His empire has been built in many countries where the line between public and private ownership is thin and blurred. According to a count by the Washington Post, at least 111 Trump companies have done business in 18 countries in South America, Asia and the Middle East.There are two Trump Towers in Turkey. During the campaign, Trump registered eight companies in Saudi Arabia, according to the Post. There is a hotel being built under the Trump name in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan. All these countries have authoritarian leaders, whom Trump has praised in recent years.Over and above these entanglements, Trump has diplomats on foreign government expenses rushing to check into his hotels; he also has loans from state-owned banks. It is impossible to gauge the extent of his reliance on foreign governments without full disclosure of his business dealings and the publication of his tax returns, which he has thus far resisted.Painter said the president-elect’s lawyers could perhaps construct a technical fix that ensured that any income from foreign governments was channelled into a separate corporation, under the ownership of his children.Such a legal tweak might get Trump past the electoral college and into the Oval Office on schedule on 20 January, but it is hard to imagine it would dispel the cloud of suspicion that would hang over a Trump White House.“It is catastrophic because you have a man coming to the presidency with a vast network of business interests, domestic and international, that will conflict, clash, collide, with his obligations to pursue the public interest,” Eisen said.“Foreign policy is where conflict of interest, between the public and private interest, is sharpest because he has these projects all over the world. We’ll never know when he favours an ally or opposes an adversary whether he’s doing it for the sake of America’s national interest or his pocket book.”Eisen and Painter called on the Trump transition team to take urgent steps to address the problem, before it triggers a constitutional crisis. They recommended he sell all his business holdings and put the proceeds in a blind trust, the composition of which would remain unknown to him, as his predecessors have done for the past four decades. Painter offered his advice to the Trump circle as a fellow Republican, but has not received any response.At his meeting with the New York Times, Trump said he was looking at changes he might make, but seemed very reluctant to sell off his empire.“That’s a very hard thing to do … because I have real estate. I have real estate all over the world, which now people are understanding,” he said. “It really is big, it’s diverse, it’s all over the world. It’s a great company with great assets.“I think that, you know, selling real estate isn’t like selling stock. Selling real estate is much different, it’s in a much different world.”Trump did not make clear why owning property made it harder to sell his stake but his resistance to such a move was apparent.“His view is that the voters know about this and and they are OK with it,” said Robert Weissman, president of the Public Citizen watchdog group.“But it is absolutely contradictory to his core message he was going to sweep away the corruption in Washington and all the deal-making.”In 2020, voters will get an opportunity to decide whether Trump has delivered on that promise. Weissman thinks the threat of impeachment before then is remote, as that is a decision of the House of Representatives, where there is a solid Republican majority.The GOP majority is much slimmer in the Senate, however, and there Trump has many enemies in Republican ranks. Although the Senate cannot initiate impeachment, it can hold hearings, summon witnesses and demand documents. It could turn a Trump presidency into one long financial scandal.“He will not be able to get away with it for very long,” Eisen said. “This is a recipe for scandal. This has happened with every president, Democrat like Bill Clinton and Republican like Richard Nixon.“When you get into a scandal, your old friends melt away. It’s an incredibly perilous situation.”Labour to push for fairer access to the justice systemThe year 2016 seems to have provided a helping hand for the increasing discrimination against Indonesia’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender communities. The constitutional court is currently mulling over a petition to revise the criminal code to make intercourse between same-sex couples illegal.The conservative Islamic group driving the petition, Family Love Alliance (Aliansi Cinta Keluarga), argues that the country’s current laws lean too heavily towards western values, which they see as at odds with ours in Indonesia. Patrialis Akbar, one of the judges in the constitutional court, has said: “Our freedom is limited by moral values as well as religious values … We’re not a secular country – this country acknowledges religion.”Indonesia’s communication and information ministry, with recommendations from the national police, religious affairs ministry and the Islamic group Majelis Ulama Indonesia (who issued a fatwa [a ruling on a point of Islamic law] against LGBT practices in 2014), has plans to ban gay dating apps such as Grindr. This comes just months after gay-themed emoji and stickers were removed from a popular messaging app in the country.This year alone, government officials have said that there is “no room” in Indonesia for the LGBT movement, that it is worse than a nuclear bomb, and that LGBT people should be barred from university campuses. In February, Vice President Jusuf Kalla asked the United Nations Development Programme to not finance LGBT community organisations in the country. In the same month, the Indonesian Psychiatrists Association classified being LGBT as a “mental disorder” that should be “cured”. You get the picture.But the most damning assessment further underscoring the pervading conservatism which restricts, if not outright threatens, the lives of LGBT communities here came in August. Human Rights Watch released a 91-page report on the matter, where you can read a story of a trans person, known here as a waria (a portmanteau of the Indonesian words for woman and man) in the city of Yogyakarta who was violently attacked in February by seven men while walking home.You’ll also read about the hostile closure of an Islamic academy (madrasa) for transgender women in the same city – a place that had become a vital refuge to many.These discriminatory acts have been abetted by politicians and lawmakers in Indonesia by way of rejoinders, policies or equally-punishing silence.Last month, however, Indonesia’s president, Joko Widodo, vowed to protect any threatened minorities in an interview with the BBC. When asked about what he thought about the hearings in the constitutional court, he said he didn’t feel the need to change the law, and that the police must protect groups from violence. “There should be no discrimination against anyone,” he said.The president’s statement, however, is not backed up by laws ensuring equal rights for LGBT people in Indonesia. In the deliberations over the United Nations’ New Urban Agenda signed last month at Habitat III, Indonesia and 16 other countries requested the removal of LGBTQ individuals in the list of “most vulnerable” groups that should not be discriminated against.As Indonesia’s most populous and diverse city, Jakarta is home to many LGBT advocacy and community groups, including Suara Kita (which also acts a shelter) and Arus Pelangi. The city also serves as Indonesia’s most visible stage on which demonstrations for or against LGBT rights take place.Last year rallies were held in central Jakarta calling for greater protection of LGBT rights and in celebration of International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia. But this year anti-LGBT banners were put up around the city by conservative Islamic groups and demonstrators protested against the Jakarta-based Asean Literary Festival for “promoting communism and LGBT values”.I was curious to find out how LGBT people in Jakarta feel about whether the city is a safe space for them or not, despite the pressure from Islamic hardliner groups, and what their hopes for the future are.I ran away from home after my mum told me to get out twice, my father compared me to an animal, and my aunt and uncle said that I’m an outlaw. All because my parents learned of my relationship with my girlfriend.My parents had given me two choices to either break up with my girlfriend or leave the house. Although I chose the second option, they still tried to stop me. “You’d be better off without your limbs than this,” my mum said. Even though my family isn’t religious, they began tossing Bible passages in my way – hoping I’d get their message: that I’ve committed a sin.So I ran away and went to Suara Kita to seek refuge there. Now I live alone and I hold down a steady job in Jakarta. To face each day, I feel fine. But whenever I get a flashback to those nights or those words that my parents said to me, it stops me in my tracks.I’ve never been harassed or harangued when I hang out with my girlfriend in Jakarta – but we have been stared at on the train.I know it’s hard, but I pray for more open-minded people, like the people in the PGI (Persatuan Gereja Indonesia, Indonesia’s church union) who issued a recommendation that we, as government or as a society, should accept LGBT communities. I’m hoping for the best.I feel safe in my community; there’s more joy than sorrow. I feel accepted among my friends and they can comfort me since we have the same vision.In some ways, Jakarta is inclusive – if we’re talking about mindsets and the character of a metropolitan society, which I think leans towards indifference. When people interact with me, they don’t really care and they talk to me without mentioning sexual orientation.Some friends tell me that although they’re okay with having LGBT acquaintances, they still don’t want their children to be LGBT. Don’t expect same-sex public displays of affection to be the norm anytime soon.I’m allowed to express myself, but not to voice an opinion or to explain my thoughts about whether gay rights are human rights. Aren’t gay rights the same as the rights to be free? To earn an honest living? To live without being discriminated against?It has nothing to do with “western” or “eastern” values whatsoever. We have all wanted those rights for so long in Indonesia – it’s just that since our struggle is relatively new, it’s regarded as something unusual, ie something western. We just want to be accepted and acknowledged by others. We want to express ourselves freely without judgment or discrimination.I am optimistic about our future. Eventually, the way people think will change, they’ll be more open-minded. It takes time for things to change, and it’s not easy, but I’m glad I’m part of it. I think that’s my hope and my fear for the future: to have the strength to carry on.Being a woman and identifying as bisexual has meant I get asked a lot of insensitive questions (“Why don’t you just like guys only?”) as well as people telling me that it’s “just a phase”.Jakarta felt safe compared to other places in Indonesia until earlier this year when the spotlight was cast on the LGBT community. Suddenly everyone seemed to despise us, when before they didn’t care about our existence at all. I constantly feel like I don’t belong and afraid, like somebody is going to hunt me down for loving someone that is of the same gender.But being a metropolitan city with a huge population of all kinds of people, there’s a lot of strong LGBT communities, even one that aims to educate university students: SGRC Indonesia (Support Group and Resource Centre on Sexuality Studies).When the higher education minister said that LGBT people should be barred from university campuses I felt betrayed.I just hope at the very least that the government doesn’t pass the bill to criminalise LGBT relationships. I also hope that Indonesians – or at least the ones in Jakarta – will slowly realise that we have a right to live as they do, and stop hating us and start accepting us as another part of the super-diverse Jakarta.In Indonesia’s LGBT communities we’re talking more about SOGIEB (sexual orientation, gender identity, expression and body) as an expanded way of addressing issues of personal freedom. I was a part of a SOGIEB-themed film festival in Jakarta, which we had to relocate and rename due to the fear of anticipated backlash.I guess this is what living as a queer person is like in Jakarta: we always have to be careful not to rub people the wrong way. In the long run, what we ultimately wish for is integration – not just tolerance or acceptance.To get there, however, takes time, struggle and hours of uncertainty because it boils down to the simple fact that Indonesians, as much as we enjoy sex to the point of obsession, are severely lacking in sex education itself.On a personal level, I would like to simply be able to walk by myself, or hand in hand with my boyfriend in public without it being a magnet for attention, or even a political act. I don’t feel threatened when I walk on the streets, but who’s to say I won’t someday? And that’s one of my biggest fears going forward: that LGBT Indonesians are stripped of our basic rights to exist.There is a lot of intersectionality between the LGBT rights movement, the women’s rights movement and the human rights movement. If more people under these movements join forces then we all could make some strides. I think we are making some strides already.Instead of chalking everything up to “LGBT”, why not concentrate on SOGIEB education? I think that’s my hope for the future: that sex education about these issues becomes a priority.In my view, we simply need to be kinder to one another.Some names have been changed. Additional reporting by Francesca PerryWhen Christopher Seddon popped into a Waitrose store last May on behalf of his housebound 89-year-old mother, he was only planning to buy a few items to get her through the week. After paying, he was stunned when two policemen seized and handcuffed him in front of watching shoppers. He was then forced to spend six hours in a cell at the local police station before being charged with stealing £102-worth of meat.Over the next three months Seddon, a published author who lives in north London, says he spent £9,600 on legal fees and expert reports to prove that it was a case of mistaken identity and clear his name. Eventually the case against him was dropped, and Waitrose offered £500 to say sorry because he is a “valued customer” – but he says the incident has left him thousands of pounds out of pocket and he describes the way he was treated as “nothing short of scandalous”.Seddon’s nightmare began when he made his twice-weekly visit to see his housebound mother who lives alone near the Waitrose store in Chesham, Bucks. Each week he shops for her, but as he left the store on that fateful Saturday afternoon he was confronted by two police officers. “They seized me, then handcuffed me with my arms behind my back, stating that they were arresting me on suspicion of shoplifting 17 days earlier, in spite of the fact that on that day I hadn’t even been in Chesham. The security guard thrust a mobile phone in my face [with a CCTV still on it] and screamed ‘do you deny this is you?’ at me. All this was going on in front of dozens of shoppers.”He says he was not allowed to call his mother, who he knew would be distressed when he inexplicably failed to return. He was held at Aylesbury police station for more than six hours.“Despite the nightmare of the situation I assumed that I could clear up what was obviously a case of mistaken identity – but I was wrong. When I was eventually questioned, I was shown CCTV footage from the afternoon of 11 May showing a bald male aged about 60 concealing £100 of meat products in a bag and leaving without paying. I was told that I had been identified as the offender by the security guard from a CCTV still he had downloaded to his mobile. But on that day I was working on a book at my north London flat and, ironically, visited the Waitrose store on the Holloway Road.”In a statement given to the police after Seddon’s arrest, the security guard claimed Seddon had also visited the Chesham store just a few days earlier and become nervous when he saw he was being watched. He said he then saw Seddon run from the store.Seddon believes the police were greatly influenced by this claim. He says the CCTV evidence, not available at the time of his arrest, shows that while he was in the store at that time, it did not show him running away.“I had come into the store for a bacon and egg sandwich for lunch, saw that there were none on the shelves and decided to go to Sainsbury’s instead. I left at a normal pace and never noticed the security guard. I even complained about the lack of bacon and egg sandwiches on Twitter. But the police believed the security guard’s account of me running from the store, as well as his claim that I was the man shown on CCTV stealing meat products, and charged me with the earlier theft.”As a result, Seddon says he was forced to hire first a solicitor and then a barrister at a cost of £6,000 plus VAT. Knowing that he had been in London when the theft took place, but living alone, he had to employ a mobile phone expert to provide evidence to that effect. He also employed a CCTV specialist, John Kennedy, who made his name in the Jamie Bulger case in which CCTV footage was central to the conviction of the boys who abducted him.Kennedy’s report states clearly that Seddon was not the person who had stolen the meat, and that the security guard’s claim that Seddon had run from the store was not true. It lists several key differences in the look of the two men, and even notes that their jackets were of different colours, contrary to what the guard told police. The expert report suggested that the photo of the thief on the security guard’s mobile phone was distorted in the act of downloading it. The image was compressed and the aspect ratio changed as a result, it said.After Seddon had paid for all this, the case was dropped the day before it was due to be heard at High Wycombe magistrates court on the instruction of the Crown Prosecution Service. But Seddon says he has since been told by his solicitor that he will recoup no more than 20%-30% of his costs, leaving him substantially out of pocket. “Having cleared my name I approached Waitrose with my expert report, naively thinking that it would be horrified by what had happened and would offer me compensation for the inconvenience, distress and financial loss, as well as take urgent steps to ensure that such an incident could not be repeated,” he says.Instead, he says the supermarket spent two months fobbing him off before concluding that its security guard had done nothing wrong.“They offered me a derisory £500 as a ‘goodwill’ gesture to a ‘valued customer’. Their emails throughout were headed ‘Waitrose customer feedback’ as if the whole affair was of no more consequence than an unsatisfactory purchase from the bakery. If a security guard cannot distinguish between running and walking then it is a matter of significant public concern that they continue to be employed as a security guard,” he says.A spokesman for Waitrose declined to offer an explanation as to what had happened. Instead, he pointed us towards Thames Valley police. “We are very sorry to hear of the distress Mr Seddon has experienced. You will need to speak to the Thames Valley police press office about the decisions taken. We are continuing our conversations with Mr Seddon and the third-party security company with whom we work so, as you will appreciate, it would not be appropriate for us to comment further at this stage.”Seddon says questions remain as to why he was treated so badly. At a meeting last week with Thames Valley police, which is still investigating his complaint against the force, Seddon says he was told by a long-serving officer that he had not ever heard of a comparable incident.Seddon is still furious at his treatment at the hand of the store, and is considering legal action. “If Waitrose will not accept responsibility, then sooner or later it will happen again to somebody else. For my part, I would have been better off accepting a police caution for a crime that I did not commit and paying Waitrose for £100 of meat products that somebody else stole. It is morally repugnant that I should be left thousands of pounds out of pocket when I have done nothing wrong,” he says.Thames Valley Police said that as it had received a complaint in relation to this investigation it would be inappropriate to comment further.Christopher Seddon’s treatment at the hands of both Waitrose and the police shows a gap in the law: a completely innocent person can be arrested and prosecuted and may not be entitled to any compensation, not even all of his legal costs, writes barrister Richard Colbey.When police make an arrest they are not liable for the consequences if they act on reasonable suspicion. There are sound public policy reasons why they should be free to do their job without worrying too much about the consequences, so long as they behave reasonably. Here the report by the security staff gave them that suspicion and meant they were duty-bound to question Seddon, and entitled to arrest him. Marching him away in handcuffs was unnecessary and apparently deplored by a more mature police officer, but it was not unlawful.Had the security guard effected the arrest the situation would have been different. There is not the same public interest in “citizens’ arrests”, and civilians have no protection if they arrest an innocent person, however reasonable the suspicion.In 1992 a Marina Davidson was accused, wrongly, of stealing from Woolworths in Bangor. The court of appeal said that a security guard, and hence a Woolworths employee, could only be liable for an arrest if it was effected by the police – ie, if they had given some direction or made a direct request or encouragement that the arrest should be made. There the court of appeal decided that the store detective had merely made a report – but the guard in Seddon’s­ case may have overstepped the mark. Also it is possible that Seddon could claim slander, but that is a notoriously difficult and expensive cause of action. He would have to show the guard acted maliciously as, otherwise, what the guard said to the police would be privileged and also that he suffered “serious harm” – a somewhat vague statutory hurdle introduced in 2014 to discourage the proliferation of defamation claims.A person acquitted of a crime will usually be able to recover his costs from public funds, but only at fairly derisory legal aid rates. These will be nothing like £10,000 even for a trial that goes ahead, and are typically hundreds, rather than thousands, of pounds. The Law Society advises solicitors to warn clients where they are incurring costs that are unlikely to be recoverable, and if Seddon’s solicitors had not given such advice then it could have taken a hit on much of the difference between its bill and the amount recovered.• Update: Christopher Seddon has confirmed that his solicitors did advise him that he may not be able to recover all his legal costs of defending himself. The barrister’s view was amended on 28 November 2016 to clarify this point.Labour to push for fairer access to the justice systemComedian Eddie Izzard defended himself against a man who shouted homophobic abuse at him as a stand against “thousands of years of transgender people being aggressively attacked”, a court has heard.Jamie Penny threatened to “do” the 54-year-old’s house after an altercation in Pimlico, central London.A month later Penny, 24, shouted to Izzard that he was a “fucking poofter” after seeing him in a street nearby.Penny, who is autistic, was found guilty of two counts of using threatening and abusive words or behaviour with intent to cause harassment, alarm or distress. He also admitted damaging a police cell after he was arrested.Giving evidence at the trial, Izzard said he stood up to him and swore back because he had faced years of abuse for being a transgender man.He told Hammersmith magistrates court: “It is something I do as a transgender man. Over years people have said very nasty things to me.“I prefer to stand my ground. I do stand up for my rights and other people’s rights.”The court heard that on 3 April Izzard had been moving bags by his vintage car outside his Pimlico home when he heard an altercation at a nearby pub, before two men approached him.Izzard told the court one suddenly leaned close to his face and told him: “You should give me a ride in your car.”The man was aggressive so Izzard said he told him he would “never have a ride in my car”, before a second man, Penny, told him: “Izzard, we are going to do your house when you are away.”The comedian told the court: “It was totally aggressive. It had gone up into a verbal attack. He was walking away but shouting aggressively at me.” He told the court the incident had made him feel “very edgy”, and that he shouted back at him, telling him he was a “fucking idiot” and to “fuck off”.Izzard said: “I was thrown because it had escalated. For hundreds of thousands of years transgender people have been aggressively attacked.“I just thought, it is not going to happen – I am going to attack back with words.”The court heard that a month later, on 4 May, Izzard was walking near Victoria station towards his house when he heard someone shout, “you’re a fucking poofter” from the other side of the road.Asked if he recognised the man as Penny, Izzard said: “I knew it was the same guy who had shouted abuse at me, I am 100% sure.” Izzard told the court he hurled abuse back at him, saying: “I don’t run and hide, I stand my ground.”Izzard told magistrates: “I am tough, I have run marathons, I wanted to stand up for myself otherwise you become a victim.”He also told the court that he had been given Penny’s name by people at the pub near where he had first been abused, but had only decided to tell police after the second incident.Under questioning, Penny said it was his friend who had threatened to “do” over Izzard’s house – and that the comedian had sneered at the pair, “talking to us like we are nothing”.He said he did not even know Izzard at first, only looking him up online later after his friend told him he was a celebrity. On the second occasion, he said he had seen Izzard harassing a black man driving a Bentley, claiming the comedian had looked intoxicated, and had told him to leave the man alone before telling him to “go to hell”, denying he had called him a “poofter”.And when Izzard told the court about the homophobic abuse, Penny said: “You’re not gay, why would I shout homophobic abuse at you if you’re not gay?” before blowing him a kiss from the dock. Magistrates said Penny, who the court heard has previous convictions for assault and possession of cannabis, would be given a restraining order and have to pay costs and compensation.He was also ordered not to contact Izzard. Penny was bailed until 30 November when he will be sentenced at Westminster magistrates court.Scotland Yard has adopted measures to increase knowledge of chemsex crime in the gay community after the police watchdog launched an investigation into “missed opportunities” to catch the serial killer Stephen Port.In the wake of Port’s conviction, frontline officers were undergoing special training to deal with rape and sex crimes against males.The measures were announced on Friday as the family of Jack Taylor, Port’s final victim, claimed their concerns over the initial investigation went unheeded because he had been dismissed as “a gay and a druggie and that was it”.Port, 41, was given a whole life sentence without release for the murders of four gay men: Anthony Walgate, 23, Gabriel Kovari, 22, Daniel Whitworth, 21, and Taylor, 25. Port had surreptitiously given them fatal doses of the drug GHB to satisfy his fetish for sex with drugged, unconscious boyish-looking males.Cdr Stuart Cundy, of the Met’s specialist crime and operations command, said the measures were “to enhance the knowledge and understanding of our officers about drugs-facilitated sexual assault, or sexual assault following chemsex”.Frontline and specialist officers who investigated these offences were being trained with the help of the anti-violence charity Galop and other LGBT organisations. A toolkit and a checklist document had been created to provide guidance for officers on how best to respond to allegations.A pilot study was launched by the Met in September to increase knowledge of the kind of drugs used to facilitate the sexual assault of men, Cundy said. Victims were being asked to provide a urine sample to test for GHB – also known as G or liquid ecstasy – which is the drug most commonly used in such cases.As part of the study, tests for GHB were also being carried out on males who had died and there was evidence of sexual assault or the death was unexplained, he said.The Met has already announced it is reviewing the deaths from GHB poisoning of 58 people in London over the last four years as a result of the Port case.An anaesthetic, GHB is popular on the dance and club scene. At low doses, it is reported to produce euphoria, lowering social inhibition and increasing libido. At higher doses, euphoria gives way to sedation. Still larger doses can induce coma. In some cases, death can arise as a result of respiratory depression or the inhalation of vomit.The Met has faced criticism in the past over its handling of the murders of members of the LGBT community. In 2007, a review of 10 murders of gay men or transgender people said in some cases police inquiries were hampered by a lack of knowledge, reliance on unfounded stereotypes and personal prejudices.The report, written by the independent Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender advisory group, did acknowledge the force had substantially improved its dealings with the communities, but said more radical steps were needed.Investigations of high-profile cases to have attracted criticism in the past include those of the serial killers Dennis Nilsen, Michael Lupo and Colin Ireland.Hamlet will go on trial this weekend for murder, treason and regicide before an appeal court judge on a stage in the West End of London.The aim of cross-examining Shakespeare’s most famous character about the fatal stabbing of Polonius is to deliver a fundraising performance for schools on the 400th anniversary of the playwright’s death.The cast combines prominent lawyers with leading actors, including the Royal Shakespeare Company’s John Heffernan as Hamlet, Meera Syal as Gertrude and Tom Conti as Claudius.The stand-up comedian Lee Mack takes the part of the Player King and the comedian and actor Hugh Dennis is the jury foreman, whose role is to return the verdict given by the entire audience.Lady Justice Hallett, a court of appeal judge, will conduct the trial and four QCs, John Kelsey-Fry, Jonathan Laidlaw, Shaheed Fatima and Ian Winter, will lead the interrogation, demonstrating the similarity in skills required onstage and in the courtroom.Money raised by the Sunday night performance at Wyndham’s theatre will be donated to the Shakespeare Schools festival.In the play, the Prince of Denmark is being held in custody contemplating a life behind bars. Kelsey-Fry, a sought-after defence silk, will argue for Hamlet’s acquittal.The show follows a successful mock trial of Macbeth that was staged last year and returned a surprise verdict of not guilty on the Scottish usurper.Hallett said mock trial projects stimulated an interest in the law and helped young students develop their talents. “I relish the opportunity to combine my two loves of the law and the theatre on the West End stage and will ensure Hamlet gets a fair trial,” she said.Syal, star of the BBC’s The Kumars at No 42 and Goodness Gracious Me, said she was “very proud to be supporting the Shakespeare Schools Foundation although a little nervous about the cross-examination”.An “independent inspectorate” should be created to restore minimum standards of access to justice and establish equality within the courts, according to a report commissioned by Jeremy Corbyn and the Labour party leadership.The interim study by the Bach Commission, published on Friday, acknowledges that deep cuts to legal aid imposed by past governments cannot be entirely reversed in the current financial climate.Past economies, particularly the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Prosecution of Offenders Act 2012 (Laspo), it says, have reduced the justice system to a state of crisis with hundreds of thousands of people being deprived of the legal support.The number of not-for-profit legal advice centres has fallen from 3,226 in 2005 to 1,462 over the past decade, exceptional case funding for legal aid fails to support those in desperate need and high court fees are deterring claimants pursuing justice in employment tribunals and the courts, the report notes. Since 2010, the annual legal aid budget has fallen from £2.1bn to £1.6bn.While not formally adopted as Labour policy, the report, overseen by the former justice minister Lord Bach, was commissioned by Jeremy Corbyn and the previous shadow justice secretary, Lord Falconer. The Fabian Society has provided support. Other commissioners and advisers include Sir Henry Brooke, a former court of appeal judge, Julie Bishop, director of the UK law centres network, and John Cooper QC.Aimed at developing future policy for the Labour party, the authors hope to build a broad consensus for improving access to the courts. The report quotes the current lord chief justice, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, as saying: “Our justice system has become unaffordable to most.”The final study is due to be published next summer before Labour’s conference. It is being crowd-funded – an initiative increasingly used by claimants for bringing legal challenges that might formerly have been paid for by legal aid.“Cuts to legal aid have created a two-tier justice system in which the poorest go without representation or advice,” the report says. “Our commission understands the economic and political imperative to control public spending, and we do not simply propose to repeal Laspo in its entirety.“Instead, the commission will establish a set of minimum standards for access to justice, and explore policy options in a number of key areas to make those standards realisable.”The report outlines six “core problems” in the justice system: loss of legal aid for housing, welfare, debt, immigration, medical negligence and family law cases; failure of the exceptional case funding scheme; lack of public legal education; mass closures of legal advice centres; higher court fees; excessive bureaucracy in the Legal Aid Agency; and antiquated technology.On its main policy recommendations, the commission says it will develop “minimum standards for access to justice to be enshrined clearly in law – which could include legal aid for all those who need it, equality of arms [so that both sides are represented in a case], sufficient and comprehensive legal education, and the availability of accessible technologies of triage.”An independent inspectorate, it says, “will consider the enforcement of these standards” in the same way that there is already a chief inspector of prisons. “The commission will consider whether there should be a chief inspector of the justice system to hold government to account,” it adds.Legal aid was also cut under the last Labour government. Lord Bach, chair of the commission, said: “Our interim report shows that our justice system is creaking at the seams. The LASPO cuts have produced a crisis in the justice system and the poorest in our society can no longer receive the legal support they require.“This unacceptable state of affairs needs challenging and changing. This report is the starting point in our ongoing work to redesign the justice system so that it works for all. The commission intends now to turn to working through the policy solutions to fix this crisis.”Richard Burgon, shadow secretary of state for justice and shadow lord Chancellor, endorsed the findings, saying: “Since 2010, the Conservatives have implemented unprecedented cuts to legal aid, putting justice beyond the reach of thousands.“There is much of substance in the report, which will be welcome to all those who value the principle of access to justice. I am particularly excited by the idea of enshrining in law a minimum standard for access to justice.“A basic threshold for access to justice has the potential to be a historic advance in our law which could improve the lives of thousands.” A Ministry of Justice spokesperson said: “We have a world-leading legal system and last year spent more than £1.5bn on legal aid.“We must ensure legal aid is sustainable and fair – both for those who need it and the taxpayer who pays for it. That is why we have made sure support remains available to the most vulnerable and in the most serious cases.“We have committed to carrying out a post-implementation review of the civil legal aid changes and an announcement on this will be made in due course.”The failure of the independent inquiry into child abuse to explain how it investigated allegations of sexual assault on its premises has undermined its credibility, a former senior lawyer on the investigation has said.Hugh Davies QC said in a letter published by the home affairs select committee that the inquiry’s leadership must provide a clear public explanation of what the allegations were, how they were investigated and what has been done to identify and address future risks.Davies was the only lawyer who commented publicly on the events that have rocked the national inquiry over the past two months, following a request from the committee for written evidence on the departure of a series of high-ranking legal experts.“It is in the public interest that [the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse] IICSA succeeds,” Davies said, and greater clarity on the allegations of sexual assault at the inquiry’s London headquarters would promote the chances of that.All the other lawyers who have left, including the former lead counsel Ben Emmerson QC, his deputy, Elizabeth Prochaska, and another counsel, Toby Fisher, cited confidentiality to the inquiry as a reason not to comment to MPs. The chair of the inquiry, Prof Alexis Jay, refused to waive that confidentiality.Emmerson was suspended in September and then resigned. Two weeks earlier, Prochaska left the inquiry. Since then, a number of other lawyers have left.Davies, who left the inquiry in 2015, said the lack of any explanation about allegations made by a junior member of staff against Emmerson left “an impression that, rather than investigating … IICSA has reached a de facto compromise agreement … and ended the investigation”.The committee report said the allegations involved claims that Emmerson sexually assaulted an inquiry worker in a lift. He denies the allegations.Davies’ testimony was released as MPs on the committee published a critical report on the troubled investigation, and called for robust action to deal with the allegations and restore public confidence in the inquiry.Yvette Cooper, the chair of the committee, said the inquiry’s response had been “wholly inadequate”. Robust action was needed to restore public confidence, including the appointment of an external person to investigate the case.“Given that the inquiry was set up to challenge institutions for covering up internal problems or ignoring abuses of power, it is crucial that it shows it has a robust and transparent approach to dealing with problems of its own,” she said.Cooper stopped short of supporting calls from fellow Labour MP Chuka Umunna for Jay to step down in favour of a senior judge, but, she said, “the inquiry needs to get back on track … it is too important to be sunk by problems … urgent action is needed to sort them out.”She criticised delays in setting up the Truth Project and holding public hearings, which showed a “significant weakness” in engaging with survivors.Cooper called for the inquiry to appoint a new counsel as a priority and to consider splitting its work into two strands; a forensic, lawyer-led investigation to establish the truth about past institutional abuse, and a second strand looking at thematic issues around child protection.The report was published as a person from the survivors panel, which was set up as part of the inquiry, called for it to be allowed to get on with its job. Chris Tuck said she had suffered vicious trolling on social media by some survivors that was hard not to take personally. “The few people who want this inquiry disbanded are robbing the victims and survivors … of the opportunity to finally have their voices heard,” she said.Davies said that despite confidentiality issues he was able to comment in the interests of transparency on the allegations of bullying and sexual assault matters that had been in the public domain.When taken together, they left a negative impression, which was compounded by unofficial briefings from inquiry sources in the media that undermined the alleged victim’s account.“I would criticise any failure by an institution to act, and IICSA must expect to be judged by the same standards it will doubtless set for others,” he said.“IICSA will investigate and make findings on institutions that have put reputational advantage ahead of a duty to investigate, including the use of compromise agreements with the subject of disclosure. If that is what has occurred here, the reputational harm to IICSA is obvious. If it is not, it is in IICSA’s interests to correct this impression.”Any disclosure of bullying or sexual assault relating to the conduct of a senior member of staff towards a more junior employee, whether it was a formal complaint or not, amounted to abuse of power, he wrote.“History demonstrates that, where bullying or other abuse reflects an imbalance of power between individuals, it is more likely to be repeated,” he added.Jay said in a statement: “We recognise that the past few months have been difficult for the inquiry, and for the victims and survivors who have placed their trust in it. I am personally sorry for any unnecessary anxiety the inquiry may have caused to victims and survivors during this transitional period.”She said the inquiry would appoint an external senior legal figure to review some of the issues raised in the committee’s report.Relatives of Woodhill prisoners who took their own life in jail have launched a judicial review, calling for action over safety procedures at the prison, which this year recorded the highest number and highest rate of self-inflicted deaths across the entire prison estate.There have been 17 suicides at the high-security Woodhill prison, in Milton Keynes, since May 2013, and at least six this year, a rate of about one every 45 days.Despite guidance from coroner reports and from the official body that investigates deaths in custody, the families claim the prison has failed to implement basic preventative measures, according to legal papers.The claimants hope their legal challenge will secure a high court order compelling the Ministry of Justice and the prison’s governor to put in place measures to reduce the risk of self-inflicted deaths. These measures are already required by law, but the claimants believe the prison has not managed to get staff to follow the guidance.A high court judge granted permission on Thursday for the judicial application to proceed.Mr Justice Lavender rejected a MoJ submission saying that appropriate steps had been taken at the prison to prevent further deaths and that the families’ claim was misconceived and unarguable.The judge said that reports on the prison revealed “repeated failure, despite earlier recommendations, to implement applicable policies”. He said this could not be dismissed as operational failures.Pearl Scarfe and Julie Barber, the mother and sister of Ian Brown, who took his life in his cell in Woodhill on 19 July 2015, have brought the claim, together with Jamie Blyde, the brother of Daniel Dunkley, who died on 2 August 2016, four days after he was found hanging in his cell.The high rate of suicides at Woodhill come at a time of rising deaths inside prisons nationally. In the 12 months to June 2016, there were 105 apparently self-inflicted deaths, a 28% increase over that period, and when taken together with homicides inside prisons this was the highest level for 25 years, according to MoJ figures cited in the legal challenge. The number of incidents of self -harm also rose by 27%, to its highest level since records began, over the same period.Jo Eggleton, partner at the legal firm Deighton Pierce Glynn, who represents the families of nine of the 17 people who have died since May 2013, said: “This case is borne out of the families’ desperation. They don’t want another family to go through this and it absolutely crushes them when they hear that another one has. They have been through every legal avenue they can – there have been inquests and coroner recommendations and nothing has changed. It happens again and again in very similar circumstances.“What’s missing is the detail of what the prison is doing. But when there are more deaths in similar circumstances it is hard to believe they are doing enough.”The judicial review seeks to address the “exceptionally high current rate of self-inflicted deaths at HMP Woodhill”. The papers state: “There is no mystery about what needs to be done; the problem is that the defendants are not doing it.”The safety procedures that need to be taken to reduce the risk of deaths are already set out in MoJ policy and are mandatory. But the families argue thatit is clear from investigations by the prison and probation ombudsman, made each time someone dies in prison, that the governor had “failed to put in place appropriate general measures for the protection of inmates from suicide”. In one coroner’s report, there was clear frustration at the prison’s failure to implement their recommendations.The report says: “There needs to be an urgent review as to why the necessary measures to prevent suicides from recently admitted prisoners have not been implemented.”The summary of the families’ case states: “The reports identify similar failings occurring in case after case. They include repeated failures to comply with the requirements of national policy on suicide and on emergency response.”One of the key recommendations is that the governor should ensure that there are full suicide risk assessments for newly arrived prisoners. The legal papers state that in seven in nine deaths where an inquest was heard, there was no compliance with the regulations setting out how prisons should respond to a medical emergency.Deborah Coles, director of the charity INQUEST, welcomed the legal challenge. “The shocking failure of HMP Woodhill to act on a body of recommendations exposes the absence of a robust system to ensure that action is taken. Repeated calls for urgent change are ignored and deaths continue.”An MOJ spokesperson said: “This matter is the subject of ongoing legal proceedings, so it would be inappropriate to comment further at this stage.”Theoretically, yes. Theresa May is adamant that Brexit will go ahead when she triggers article 50 before the end of March, and has insisted there will be no second referendum. At the moment it is verging on political heresy to say the UK should not proceed with leaving the EU, because that was the democratic outcome of the referendum. However, there was nothing binding about the vote and no legal obligation for the government to pursue Brexit.The most straightforward technical way of stopping Brexit is to not trigger article 50, which fires the starting gun on two years of negotiations with the EU. After this point, there are conflicting legal views on whether it would be possible to rescind notification that Britain wants to leave. Some, such as Donald Tusk, the EU council president, believe the UK could withdraw its application to leave, but others, including the British government, hold that it would be a one-way track to the exit door.At the moment, the majority of MPs are in favour of respecting the result. There are a few exceptions, including some Liberal Democrats and the former Labour leadership contender Owen Smith, who want another referendum after a deal with the EU has been negotiated; and a handful of diehard remainers, such as the Europhile Tory MP Ken Clarke, who want to halt the process altogether. This could probably only change if there was an obvious shift in the public mood towards staying in. That could push politicians to rethink their fervour for carrying out the “will of the people” in favour of Brexit. However, such a shift is unlikely before the end of March.There is a high court ruling that says parliament must give its approval for Brexit before article 50 can be triggered. The government is appealing against this, but if the judgment stands MPs could theoretically prevent Brexit. It is unlikely, however, that they will do so given that Labour has indicated it will support legislation paving the way for Britain’s exit – likely to be in the form of a three-line parliamentary bill. On the other hand, MPs may try to hold up the process by asking for more details about May’s strategy and demands before giving their approval. While there is a majority of MPs in favour of proceeding with Brexit, there is probably no majority for a hard Brexit involving a clean break with the single market and customs union.Economic gloom popularly blamed on Brexit could conceivably cause voters to rethink their support for leaving the EU. In his interview with the New Statesman, Blair suggests this is one of two situations in which people could change their mind about Brexit. He says people might reconsider if the exit terms negotiated with the EU looked so economically damaging that the “pain-gain” ratio made it no longer worthwhile. But there is a strong argument that this would only happen if and when people’s jobs, finances and lives had already started to be affected by an economic slump.The second situation outlined by Blair is that the exit terms negotiated with the EU seem so similar to the status quo that people question whether the UK should bother leaving. This is perhaps a less likely scenario because May has been adamant that she will not accept one of the fundamental pillars of the EU: freedom of movement. At the moment, there appears to be little appetite from EU leaders to change their rules to keep the UK in the bloc, although international politics can shift substantially during two years of negotiations.Probably, or a general election won by a party campaigning to drop Brexit. The crunch point would come at the point of May returning from Brussels with an exit deal, and if parliament felt the result was not satisfactory and decided to vote it down. It would be difficult for the prime minister to avoid giving the Commons and Lords a vote at this point.If this happened, the prime minister could either try to negotiate a better deal, or decide to bypass parliament by getting her own mandate for the deal. Her choices would be to hold a general election, or run another referendum, either on the terms of the deal, or on whether to proceed with leaving at all, bearing in mind that it is not yet clear that article 50 can be withdrawn once triggered.The decision to call another referendum would be highly contentious and divisive. Leave campaigners would not give up without a fight, especially if there were to be a narrow result in favour of staying in.The government does not accept that the devolved administrations have a veto, although it has promised to give them a consultative role in the process of leaving the EU. However, the Scottish and Welsh governments have been allowed to take part in the supreme court appeal, which may determine how much say they have over the Brexit process through their own legislatures.Scotland is the most likely to want to halt Brexit as its voters wanted to stay in the EU. Further down the line, Scottish National party MPs in Westminster could play a role in trying to block any deal done by May, clubbing together with MPs from other parties if they do not like the terms.In Northern Ireland, the ruling Democratic Unionist party is in favour of Brexit but a campaigner for victims of paramilitary violence has won the right to a hearing in the supreme court aimed at blocking Northern Ireland from leaving the EU.December brings not only the countdown to Christmas, but a nerve-wracking time for the students invited to interview for a place to study law at Oxbridge and several other universities. So if you are one of the chosen few, how can you give yourself the best chance of winning a place? Four law tutors provide an idea of what to expect and tips for making the most of the opportunity.The form of the interviews vary across institutions, but the general approach is the same. At Oxford, explains Rebecca Williams, a law fellow at Pembroke College, students are interviewed two or three times over a couple of days by separate panels, each made up of two or three law tutors. Interviews will often take the form of mini-tutorial. Beforehand, students are given a passage of text, which may be part of a judgment, with any legal jargon removed, and asked to discuss it.The format for the interviews at Cambridge follow a similar pattern. Candidates have two interviews conducted by different law fellows, explains Claire Fenton-Glynn, fellow and law lecturer at Jesus College. One will involve the student being asked about an extract of a legal text that they have been given in advance, and the other is more “free form”, in which students are asked to consider scenarios.For instance, students last year were asked a question about the “Keep off the lawn” signs that are a common sight on the college grounds: “If no one could see you and if no one would find out, would you walk on the grass?”To test their responses, students were asked to consider whether they would walk on the grass if they were late for their interview, or if they saw a person choking on the other side of it. If they said they would walk on the grass, they might then have been asked what gave them the right to break the rules, and whether all rules could be broken.Tutors stress that no legal knowledge is required or expected of those being interviewed. They are not interested in whether the students give the right answer – there may not even be right answers. They are really looking at a student’s comprehension skills and their ability to take in information, analyse it, and think critically, says Fenton-Glynn.What is being assessed, says Williams, is “raw intelligence”, and the ability to cope with the course. “We are testing their logical reasoning and want to see how they think and how their brains work.”The fundamental skill they are looking for, says Sam Lucy, director of admissions for the Cambridge colleges, is “precision of thinking” – most other things, she says, can be taught. She wants to see if students can pick up on the subtleties and ambiguities of language that shows they recognise matters can be interpreted in different ways. “It’s about have a sensitivity to language with almost a mathematical bent.”Students, she adds, are not there to defend a particular position and should not feel bound to stick to one line of argument, particularly if they feel they have gone down the wrong path. Tutors will give hints for students to change their minds and want to see if they can pick up on them. Sticking doggedly to a position, warns Thomas Krebs, law tutor at Brasenose College, Oxford, may indicate that a student is not open to being taught. He says it is a fault typically seen in students from some independent schools, who have often been told to stick to their guns. “We want to see if you are flexible and can be taught.”Given the format and subject matter of the interviews, there is little that students can do to prepare – at least practically. The best thing to do, says Fenton-Glynn, is to read widely – and not necessarily legal texts, but newspapers and blogs.She recommends the HE+ website, which allows students to explore law, giving guided activities, questions, videos and further reading.And candidates should not get hung up on what to wear. Whether you wear your school uniform, a suit or jeans and a T-shirt, the important thing, says Williams, is to wear something you feel comfortable in and that enables you to perform at your best. Fenton-Glynn agrees: “You are not assessed on your appearance. We’re looking for the best students, it’s as simple as that.”Keep up with the latest on Guardian Students: follow us on Twitter at @GdnStudents – and become a member to receive exclusive benefits and our weekly newsletter.Trinity Mirror has no right to own newspapers. Its board should resign. Read the story of what the publisher did to Robert Norman, as detailed in a Press Gazette interview, and you will understand why.Let’s begin with these statements of principle that guide journalists in Britain and Europe:“Journalists have a moral obligation to protect confidential sources of information.” (UK editors’ code of practice) “A journalist protects the identity of sources who supply information in confidence.” (National Union of Journalists’ code of conduct) “Protecting sources is a key principle of journalism for which some journalists have gone to jail.” (BBC editorial guidelines)Now consider the judicial support for that principle:But Trinity Mirror did not agree. It sacrificed that principle. In so doing, it set in train events that have wrecked the life of a confidential journalistic source: Robert Norman, former prison officer.He is not the only one of Trinity Mirror’s victims. Nor is the Daily Mirror’s owner the only sinner: News Corporation also revealed the identities of the sources of Sun reporters.What is different is that Norman has become the first of the 32 sources who were convicted under Operation Elveden, the Metropolitan police investigation into newspaper payments to public officials, to speak out.Here is what happened to him. In April 2006, he was working at Belmarsh maximum security prison in London, acting as health and safety officer for the Prison Officers’ Association.He was upset about the management’s failure to deal with the fact that a female officer was having an affair with an inmate, regarding it as a potential danger to staff.So he phoned the Daily Mirror newsdesk and was put in touch with reporter Stephen Moyes. The story, leaked by other prison colleagues, broke before Moyes could get to it, but he asked Norman to get in touch should anything else happen.Norman told Press Gazette’s editor Dominic Ponsford: “I did, over staff cuts and security. All the stories I gave him were in the public interest, highlighting dangers to the public and dangers to staff.“Stephen managed to get a story in about the staff cuts and we went from there.”Over the following five years, Norman shared 40 pieces of information with Moyes. In return he received tip fees totalling £10,684.Money, he stresses, was not the driving factor. Ponsford lists some of the stories. They included the regrading of prisoners to ease overcrowding, security issues over laptops, a prisoner’s suicide, excessive expenditure on a staff party and the prison’s failure to pass security inspections.In 2011, he decided to stop giving stories to Moyes, who had moved to the News of the World. He said: “I cut all ties with Stephen and decided to concentrate on getting through to retirement.”But two years later Trinity Mirror took a fateful step. Caught in the backwash of phone-hacking allegations and aware of News Corp having passed on information about payments to public officials, it decided to do the same.Norman was one of those identified in the documents it passed to the police. And, in May 2013, Norman was roused from his sleep at 5.45am.Sixteen police officers “barged into my house,” he said. “All that was missing were the helicopters and the napalm.” He was placed on police bail for two years, prosecuted for committing misconduct in a public office and, after a three-week Old Bailey trial in 2015, he was convicted and sentenced to jail for 20 months.By contrast, charges against Moyes, and other journalists, were dropped after the Crown Prosecution Service reviewed Operation Elveden cases. Sources, however, were not spared. Moyes was upset about the prosecution of Norman.Norman had to sell his house in order to pay the £51,000 costs of his defence. His wife’s mental health, already fragile, deteriorated. She attempted to take her own life and was committed to psychiatric care on three occasions. (Now, thankfully, she is said to be “on the road to recovery.”)Norman served six months in prison and five under home detention. Last month, he lost his appeal against conviction. He is planning a further appeal to the supreme court.He now lives on the £64 a week, which he receives from the state as his wife’s full-time carer.Ponsford asked Norman what he thought of Trinity Mirror’s action. He replied: “You’re a source and journalists are supposed to look after their sources...“I think the way myself and other whistleblowers have been treated is absolutely atrocious.”Moyes, who left the Mirror for the News of the World and later moved to the Sun, clearly agrees. He registered his dismay at Norman being charged, saying: “Without him a number of important security and safety exposés would have been hushed up.”Trinity Mirror, which declined to comment to Ponsford, confirmed to me that it is not making any response. No surprise there. How could it be anything other than embarrassed by Norman’s sad story? I repeat. The board should resign. It is led by chairman David Grigson and chief executive Simon Fox. Vijay Vaghela is the finance director, and there are five non-executives: Lee Ginsberg, Steve Hatch, David Kelly, Helen Stevenson and Olivia Streatfeild.Grigson, Fox and Vaghela were in post when the decision was made to inform the police and are therefore responsible for breaking a cardinal rule of journalism. The five non-execs, who were appointed later, should also consider their positions.If any of them have a shred of respect for the trade from which they profit they should step down.At least 25 Indian NGOs have lost licences to receive international funding because of their “anti-national” activities, while a further 11,319 have lost licences for failing to renew them, shrinking India’s pool of foreign-funded organisations to a little more than half the number it was two years ago.According to the Ministry of Home Affairs, the licences were revoked because the NGOs “failed to meet legal requirements” under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) (pdf) of 2010. The move could mean that some NGOs reliant on international funding will be forced to close.Many of the 25 NGOs received notices saying their licences would be cancelled based on the government’s “field reports”. They said they were not given any indication of which laws they had violated or what the field reports said.Henri Tiphagne, executive director of social justice and human rights organisation People’s Watch, said the decision to revoke his NGO’s licence was the latest in a series of moves by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata party to quash opposition.“The government is determined to see no dissent. I completely uphold the principle that NGOs should be transparent and that is why we have been filing all the documents, and we have even put our accounts from the last 10 years on our website,” he said. “But the government should at least give us a reason why they have taken this step, so if we need to appeal the decision we know what we are appealing against. …“It’s harassment for the NGOs. When things go wrong, we speak up. Perhaps that is what is irritating the government.”Dunu Roy, director of the Hazards Centre – which also lost its licence – said: “All we know is that there is a field agency report, but we don’t know which field agency, or what the report says, or when it was written. They can’t take one-sided action like this. If they found a genuine reason that we should not operate, then they should tell us that reason.”Charities said that, with the bulk of their funding cut, they would find it difficult to keep operating in India. Anil Chaudhary, who heads the Indian Social Action Forum (Insaf), another NGO that lost its licence, said: “Around 85% of our funding comes from foreign donations. Now we cannot receive foreign funds and we cannot operate our accounts.”Many NGOs had opposed the government’s draconian laws by refusing to file renewal documents. They argued that human rights and environmental groups that campaign against Modi’s corporate-friendly development programmes were being targeted by the government.Modi’s latest cull is part of a growing antipathy towards NGOs as India tries to modernise its infrastructure and push economic growth. In February, Modi said NGOs were acting as fronts for foreign lobby organisations or terrorist groups conspiring to destabilise India and defame him.In 2014, a leaked Intelligence Bureau document to Modi said foreign-funded NGOs that highlighted issues such as caste discrimination, human rights or environmental concerns were part of a “growth-retarding campaign” to discredit India at international forums. Under his government, major international charities including Greenpeace have been targeted by the government.A joint statement from Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said the government was using the FCRA to muzzle NGOs. “The law’s use of broad and vague terms such as ‘public interest’ and ‘national interest’ have left it open to abuse,” read the statement.It added that in May the government temporarily suspended funding licences for the Lawyers Collective, citing alleged violations under the FCRA. “The charges appeared to be politically motivated because of their work in routinely representing people in cases against the current government, including Priya Pillai of Greenpeace India and Teesta Setalvad, an activist who has been seeking justice for victims of the 2002 communal violence in Gujarat.”Three UN special rapporteurs have urged Modi to repeal the FCRA, which they say is being used increasingly “to silence organisations involved in advocating civil, political, economic, social, environmental or cultural priorities, which may differ from those backed by the government”.Home ministry spokesman KS Dhatwalia said he would not comment on why NGOs had been targeted by the government. “Obviously, the government has no personal agenda against these NGOS. The NGOs know there are certain regulations they are supposed to follow. If you do not follow the law of the land, your licence will be removed. It’s as simple as that.”Letters: Judges could be elected in part by the public from among suitably qualified and experienced lawyersLord Neuberger rightly addresses the need for diversity on the supreme court bench (Report, 22 November). The proposed measures including flexible working practices and changes in the recruitment process are to be welcomed. However, the article goes on to state that there is a wider “criticism of the composition of the judiciary” particularly at senior levels from which supreme court judges are recruited. There is a radical solution: judges could be elected in part by the public from among suitably qualified and experienced lawyers. In this way the judiciary would more accurately reflect the public they serve. Judges could in turn then elect the supreme court from among their own numbers.Francis McGonigalBirmingham City University• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersLast month I persuaded a few dozen people to have a “squirting water fight” outside parliament to highlight the absurdity of UK sex laws. The digital economy bill – currently at committee stage – is an outrageous attack on the sexual liberty and personal privacy of adults in the UK. It will destroy the livelihoods of many adult industry workers, particularly webcam performers and DIY porn producers such as me. Making and selling our own content online gives us autonomy over our work – but the mandatory age verification and censorship this legislation will impose on online porn will take that away.I own and operate Dreams of Spanking; a niche BDSM (bondage, domination, submission and masochism) site with films expressing my personal sexual fantasies. Running my own website gives me total freedom to do what I want on camera, with the people I choose. Authentic and performer-centric sites such as mine are exactly what the porn industry needs – but small-scale independent websites will be devastated if the digital economy bill is passed into law.I’m no stranger to censorship. Last year, Dreams of Spanking was unsuccessfully targeted under the Audiovisual Media Services Regulations 2014, because my consensual BDSM videos depict spankings that leave marks. After a traumatic, invasive investigation, I was forced to take my site offline – and I was left in no doubt that the law considers kinky sexualities such as mine to be obscene.I sought legal help, and eventually won my appeal and reopened the site. But I had a mere four weeks to enjoy my victory before the digital economy bill was presented to parliament, and I realised that I was going to face being criminalised all over again.I can’t help that I like spanking. I’ve known I was fascinated by the idea since childhood, when I read about it in books and wondered what it felt like to experience. I kept my interest secret, feeling ashamed without really knowing why. As I entered puberty, I felt like a freak.It wasn’t until I got online in the late 1990s and found free previews for online pornography (which I wasn’t legally old enough to view) that I realised I wasn’t alone. For the first time, I began to understand that maybe I wasn’t the only person on the planet who found the idea of spanking erotic after all.This is why I make BDSM porn: I want to send the message that there’s nothing wrong with being kinky, and to help isolated individuals feel less alone. There’s nothing wrong with us; our fetish isn’t harmful to society. On the contrary, it does great harm to criminalise sites that are a lifeline to people with marginalised sexualities.By bringing in mandatory age verification the digital economy bill will force homegrown porn out of business. Feminist, queer and indie porn sites are labours of love. We don’t make much money, and can’t afford to securely age check every site visitor. We bring much-needed diversity to the adult industry, and disrupt the homogeneity and heteronormativity of mainstream porn. We empower performers, depict authentic self-expression and subvert stereotypes. It’s our sites that will disappear if this becomes law – not the behemoths of traditional porn, which are far more likely to be stumbled across by those not ready for that content.Not only that, but age checks requiring users to submit identifying details to prove their age will enable record-keeping on a global scale. Do you want a private company to own a database of every porn site you’ve ever looked at – and would you trust a “tube site” to keep that data safe? Me neither.Most worrying is the list of “prohibited content” – material that the digital economy bill seeks to ban entirely. This is based on the BBFC classification guidelines, which excludes an awful lot of consensual sex acts from R18, the highest category. Acts that are legal to perform in the UK, but not legal to depict in porn, which includes fisting, watersports and female ejaculation (if the fluid lands on another person, or is consumed).What message are we sending to young women by criminalising porn that depicts a visual, undeniable representation of female sexual fulfilment? Do we really want girls to think that the way their bodies naturally respond to pleasure is obscene?The UK’s laws around sex and porn need bringing up to date. The BBFC rules ultimately derive from the Obscene Publications Act – a law dating from 1959, when it was still illegal to have gay sex, never mind film it. It’s absurd that this law should still be controlling what we can do with our bodies.If we want to help young people stay safe online, we need to teach privacy skills and how to critique the media they will inevitably encounter online. We need to make sex education mandatory in schools – and we need it to answer the questions young people are asking, such as: how will I know when I’m ready to have sex? And when I am, how can I make my partner feel good? Attacking online porn is a cheap way to score political points – and it’s a distraction from the real issues.Irish trade unions have launched a campaign for a referendum to abolish an amendment to the Irish constitution that pro-choice campaigners say prevents serious reform of strict anti-abortion laws.The leaders of some of the country’s biggest unions gathered on a bridge over the river Liffey in Dublin on Wednesday morning to call for the repeal of the eighth amendment, which gives an unborn child the right to life, for the first time since it was passed more than three decades ago.The amendment was introduced through a referendum in 1983. Ireland’s then politically influential anti-abortion lobby, in alliance with the Catholic church, forced the Fine Gael-Labour coalition to hold a national vote to in effect make an embryo into an Irish citizen. It passed with 67% voting in favour.Pro-choice groups say the amendment creates a legal “chill factor” among medical teams, even in cases where a recent law allows for terminations in very limited circumstances, such as when continuing with a pregnancy would result in the woman’s death or in cases where she is suicidal.At the Rosie Hackett bridge, named after a prominent 20th-century Irish revolutionary feminist and trade unionist, the country’s trade union leadership said it was time to give a new generation of Irish voters a chance to overhaul Ireland’s anti-abortion laws.Mary Diskin, a spokeswoman for the Trade Union Campaign to Repeal the Eighth Amendment, said: “Abortion is a reality in Ireland: between 1980 and 2014, at least 163,514 women registered for terminations abroad; many others gave no personal details.”She said the near total abortion ban hit lower-paid women hardest given that it costs up to €3,000 to travel to Britain for a termination.Diskin said it was the duty of unions to campaign against “the cruelty to women that they have to leave this jurisdiction for a service that is available throughout the world but not available here in Ireland”.Unite’s regional secretary, Jimmy Kelly, said: “Last year, over 3,400 women travelled from the Irish Republic to Britain to access abortion. As a pro-choice union, Unite has consistently argued that the eighth amendment must be repealed as a first step to enabling women to access safe, legal and affordable terminations in Ireland.”However, Kelly expressed some doubt that the Fine Gael-led minority government was strong enough to push through legislation that would lead to a new referendum on the issue. “Every issue seems now to be affected by this government being propped up by Fianna Fáil and I wouldn’t be hopeful that they make the move that we need made to repeal the eighth. It will probably happen in the next government,” he said.In Turkey, backbenchers of the ruling AK party have proposed that child rapists be allowed out of jail on the condition that they marry their victims, a scheme that will supposedly allow girls under the age of 16 to be “reunified” with the men who abused them as a family unit. When I first heard the news, I started sobbing and couldn’t stop. I kept thinking about all the girls who would go through what I had gone through. I couldn’t imagine this becoming legal.I feel ashamed of being a Turk. It is awful enough that the rape of children happens; but now they have tried to legalise it. I thought that we’d moved on, that those days were behind us. Now I realise nothing has changed. Men are still doing their best to put women precisely where they want them to be.Why am I writing anonymously? Because I am still frightened of my attacker.When I was 14 I lived in southern Turkey. I was top of the class and very popular. I had a close friend from school, and sometimes I would go to her house. Once or twice I met her older brother, who was about 15 years older than me. I called him “abi”, meaning “elder brother”. We didn’t really speak. One day my friend said, “My abi wants to take me to the cinema, will you come with me?” I asked my mother and she said yes – he was regarded as an important man in the community and was well respected.He took us out a few times in his car. He always dropped me off first before taking his sister home. Then, one day he dropped my friend off and drove in the opposite direction to my house. I was terrified. He stopped the car just outside town and turned to me. I started screaming before he could touch me. Suddenly a policeman approached the car and asked what was going on. He tried to lie; he knew he was in trouble, but he was taken to the police station. I was escorted home and sent to my room. The next day I was not allowed to go to school.My uncle came a couple of days later, saying, “I’m going to sort this out, but you have to get engaged to this man.” I said there was no way I would, but my uncle said I had to if I wanted to go back to school. I found out later that they changed my birth certificate to make me two years older, so that my friend’s brother could be released from prison.Once we were engaged, I was allowed back to school, but the teachers humiliated me and I lost all my friends. I got good marks and I could have gone to university. But my mother and uncle said, “No, you’re going to get married.” I refused. They said, “Look, this will be a formality, you can’t go to university if you don’t get married.”I remember the day my family put me in a taxi to the registry office. I made them stop the car twice; I was desperate, terrified. Both times they said, “No, you have to go, otherwise we will be humiliated.” I signed the papers and we started our life together as a married couple.There was not a second that I didn’t hate. All my aspirations and hopes had been dashed. I started working and at least that was something, but then he told me I had to leave work. He made my life an absolute misery, but I couldn’t do anything because he had control of our money. When I asked for a divorce, he said he would cut me into bits and scatter my parts – and “no one will find you”.This is exactly what is going to happen to these girls in Turkey if the law is changed. It happens already, and it’ll be even worse: legally sanctioned rape. For now, the bill has been withdrawn owing to a public outcry – but the fact that it was proposed is a dark indication of the priorities of this government. There is no guarantee that a similar proposal won’t be made in future.When people talk about rape there are many cliches, but what is absolutely true is that the victim thinks that they’re the one who is the cause of it; that they are the problem. They think: “Why couldn’t I have pushed him harder, why couldn’t I have bitten him or scratched his face?” I could never be the same again, that was the horror of it all. In the end I escaped, but it nearly killed me.The change in the law being proposed is cultural, not moral, and the government knows this. It argues it’s for the good of the raped child and her offspring – that it will make her more respectable, save her honour and keep the family together. But actually it’s all about getting the man off the hook. If they change the law, men will be able to rape girls and then say, “I’ll just marry her.” And what’s the good of that? Once you’re married, you’re given the licence to be raped, again and again and again. At least if it wasn’t legal then you wouldn’t have to be married. At least you wouldn’t be sentenced to be your attacker’s sex slave.Condemning a girl to a lifetime of rape is taking everything from her – her youth, her future, her happiness. When I heard the news, I knew I had to share my story. I want people to know what it’s like to go through this.Lord chief justice says he hopes ‘problem-solving courts’ scheme is expanded and warns of shortage of high court judgesHonestly, these cryonics stories are driving me mad (Report, 18 November). As someone with terminal cancer (and ignoring the fact that I find the description in your articles of people like myself as “cancer victims” to be teeth-grindingly irritating) I feel everyone is ignoring the fact that a young woman looked into her future and saw the denial of everything she was promised. She was denied boyfriends, university, a job, marriage, children, life… and she was not ready to give up on those promises. She didn’t want to die. None of us does. I’m grateful that the judge had the good sense to realise this was not about whether cryonics worked, but her own hopes for the future. Reading some pieces lately it seems that while we’ll arrange bungee-jumping days out for the terminally ill, how one disposes of one’s own corpse is a step too far in giving the dying what they’re asking for.Julia FrithLincoln• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersFewer criminals should be jailed and tougher community punishments developed as an alternative to imprisonment, the lord chief justice has urged.Appearing before MPs on the justice select committee on Monday, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd also warned there was a shortage of high court judges partially because of cuts in their pension rights and that up to 40 would need to be recruited by over the next few years.The most senior judge in England and Wales welcomed the introduction of US-style “problem-solving courts”, whereby offenders are brought back regularly to have their sentences and progress reviewed by a judge after conviction.Thomas said there had been a “pause in the government’s thinking” but hoped the scheme would be expanded. “There’s an awful lot we can do to avoid sending certain people to prison provided that the orders are properly carried out by the probation and rehabilitation companies,” he said. “The prison population is very, very high at the moment. Whether it will continue to rise is always difficult to tell. There are worries that it will. I don’t know whether we can dispense with more [offenders] by really tough, and I do mean tough, community penalties. So I would like to see that done first.”His comments come as jails in England and Wales endure a turbulent period. This month thousands of prison officers staged a walkout amid claims the system was “in meltdown” after a rise in violence and self-harm incidents in jails. There are more than 85,000 people in prison in England and Wales.Thomas said the latest survey of morale among the judiciary showed serious concerns, reflecting resentment over cuts in the value of judges’ pensions and changes to their working practices.An employment tribunal is hearing a claim by more than 200 judges who allege that they have been the subject of discrimination because newly appointed judges have been given less generous pension provision.The lord chief justice said that on recruitment, judges take a “huge salary cut” from their work as barristers in private practice. High court judges are paid about £180,000 a year.There is a shortfall of about six high court judges. “We will need to recruit 30 to 40 over the next few years,” Thomas told the select committee.The transfer of more and more low-level cases, such as motoring offences, to online courts is likely to result in a more organised system of publishing the names of those who have pleaded guilty or been convicted, Thomas said. MPs on the committee did no ask him about his response to being labelled along with the master of the rolls, Sir Terence Etherton, and Lord Justice Sales as “enemies of the people” by the Daily Mail after their Brexit ruling.Asked, outside the committee room, whether such attacks depress judicial morale, Thomas told reporters: “I have observations to make but it’s not proper to make them at this time. There’s an appeal still before the court.”The 20-year minimum terms handed to a teenage couple believed to be Britain’s youngest double-murderers have been referred to the attorney general for being “unduly lenient”.The boy and girl were both 14 at the time when they killed Elizabeth Edwards, 49, and her 13-year-old daughter, Katie, at their home in Spalding, Lincolnshire, in April. Afterwards the couple had sex, shared a bath and watched four Twilight vampire films, their trial heard.Now both 15, the couple were handed life sentences by Mr Justice Haddon-Cave, who said the pair had a toxic relationship and acted in a grotesque way.Sentencing them at Nottingham crown court earlier this month, the judge said the case had “few parallels in modern criminal history”.He told the teenagers: “There was remarkable premeditation and planning – it was, on any view, substantial, meticulous and repeated.“The killings were brutal in the form of executions and both victims, particularly Elizabeth Edwards, must have suffered terribly in the last minutes of their lives.“Had you been adults you may have been facing the whole of your lives in prison for this double murder.”The court was told the boy, who admitted murder, used a kitchen knife to stab both victims in the neck after attacking them as they slept.His girlfriend, who helped to plan the “cold, calculated and callous” killings, denied murder. Her defence argued that she had an abnormality of mental function that impaired her ability to form rational judgments. She was found guilty after a five-day trial.The case was referred to the attorney general under the unduly lenient sentence scheme and law officers have 28 days to decide if any action should be taken.A statement from the attorney general’s office said: “We are unable to provide the details of who referred the case. The threshold to refer cases to the court of appeal is very high.“A sentence can only be regarded as unduly lenient if there has been a gross error and it is significantly below the level that any judge could have reasonably imposed after considering the facts of the case.”Britain often claims to possess the finest justice system in the world, with a “colour blind” approach to the law. Unfortunately, this isn’t true: justice is neither colour blind, nor is it equal.Historically, the justice system has been used to legitimise slavery, and then colonialism, from Elizabethan England onwards. In Kenya, between 1951 and 1954, during the Mau Mau uprising, more than 1,090 Kenyans were executed by the British colonial judiciary, backed by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. This appalling figure represents the most liberal use of the death penalty in British legal history and is double the number of those executed by the French during the war of liberation in Algeria 10 years later.In more recent times, judges have enforced the unjust “sus” laws (the informal name used for stop-and-search laws which still disproportionately affect BME people). It can be argued that racism is embedded in the DNA of the British judiciary and that it has proved uniquely resilient to education or training.But to what extent is racism present in the system today? A study headed by David Lammy MP, published last week, makes for very disturbing reading.In 1991, statistics regarding how differently BME and white suspects were dealt with in the criminal justice system helped to trigger race training for all full-time judges over a five-year period. Those statistics have not improved. If you are an African-Caribbean man you are 16% more likely to be remanded in custody than if you are white; you are also likely to obtain a custodial sentence of 24 months compared to your white counterpart’s 17 months. This is not because African-Caribbean men commit more serious offences than their white counterparts – these are punishments handed down for the same or similar offences. African-Caribbean men are also subject to receiving immediate custodial sentences with fewer previous convictions than their white counterparts. Our perceptions have become the reality that means 41% of all young people in detention are now from BME communities.What is critical is that the report highlights, yet again, the fundamental racist disparities in the dispensation, administration and dissemination of justice. There is a crisis of both trust and confidence in the British judicial system among black communities. Their concerns are that it remains arbitrary, inconsistent and discriminatory. This interim report proves them right – despite its diplomatic language.Of course, poverty, homelessness and drug addiction all play their part, as does the disproportionate influence of an institutionally racist police culture, which means black defendants are stopped and searched seven times more often than their white counterparts. This is despite falling stop-and-search figures, and falling crime generally.A significant responsibility for this disparity of treatment still lies with an overwhelmingly white, middle class and male magistracy and judiciary, resistant to ethnic monitoring, which hides behind the fallacy that justice is “colour blind and impartial”.We cannot expect to have a diverse judiciary and magistracy, and to recruit police officers, probation officers, prison officers and lawyers who look like us and are knowledgeable of our communities, if we are forced to operate in a system that is itself unwilling or unable to deliver justice equally to all. As Martin Luther King said, “It is not possible to be in favour of justice for some people and not to be in favour of justice for all people.”At present, out of 161 members of the high court judiciary, there is not a single African-Caribbean judge, while only two are of Asian origin. Less than 2.5% of Oxford and Cambridge graduates (from whom 86% of high court judges are drawn) are of African-Caribbean origin. The legal pipeline and the outcome are a self-fulfilling prophecy. The race training introduced in 1991, was only introduced on the basis that high court judges were exempt, as they simply did not require it. That rather arrogant intellectual exception must now be addressed.Lord Neuberger’s comments last night suggest that he knows judicial diversity needs tackling. I am currently suing the Ministry of Justice for race discrimination and victimisation arising out of short speech on judicial racism and human rights I gave. It was at a meeting to protest at the decision of an electoral deputy high court judge to ban the former mayor of Tower Hamlets, Lutfur Rahman, from holding public office for five years. The allegation was that I indirectly criticised a fellow judge, the first time any judge has ever faced disciplinary action for this charge.Several months later, in November 2015, there was an attempt to suspend me, approved by several high court judges, and the Judicial Conduct Investigations Office, who threatened me with a formal suspension. This was at the same time that a fellow immigration judge of African origin had her complaint of sex and race discrimination ignored while the three white judges accused were never faced with suspension. A fellow Asian district judge still faces disciplinary sanctions for a minor complaint that at most was a competence issue, and three other BME judges are currently suing the Ministry of Justice. The treatment of BME judges by our white colleagues demonstrates a culture in which we are not accepted as equals with a fundamental right to challenge discrimination. Little wonder then that BME defendants and litigants face race discrimination in all jurisdictions.Even if one achieves a “critical mass” of BME judges and magistrates, the injustice is unlikely to be eradicated if the culture of who is perceived to be the likely recidivist or the most “dangerous” offender persists. The only solution is the one resisted by the Ministry of Justice, and by most senior judges – that is monitoring each crown court and magistrates centre so that there can be proper scrutiny of individual courts to identify where the problem lies.Allied to this must be a full acknowledgement by the Sentencing Council that sentencing and bail guidance must set out clearly the levels of disparity for each offence. Simply pretending the problem does not exist is a recipe for unconscious but appalling levels of racial bias to continue unchecked.The training on race from 1991 to 1995 worked, as it forced judges to engage with BME mentors who challenged subconscious bias and racism as equals in a secure setting. The race awareness training practised in the 20 years since has been discredited as wholly ineffective. It is too polite, conducted infrequently and by fellow judges who themselves are part of the problem.The judiciary is a pillar of our democracy with a historical responsibility for the racism that affects our fundamental freedoms and rights. If that is to change, it must work hard to eradicate disproportionate sentences and bail that remove the freedom and rights of people of colour. Justice cannot be the prerogative of a narrow, white middle-class elite, who believe that racism is a problem for other lesser mortals to confront.A Dutch journalist, Okke Ornstein, is being held in jail in Panama after being arrested last Tuesday (15 November) on a charge of criminal libel.He is facing a 20-month prison sentence over articles published on his blog about the business practices of a Canadian who lives in Panama City, Monte Friesner.The Dutch Journalists Association (NVJ) has called for Ornstein’s release, arguing that the charge is baseless.Its secretary-general, Thomas Bruning, said the prison sentence “is against the fundamental principles of freedom of speech and the freedom of expression, principles that are acknowledged as fundamental rights worldwide.”His call is backed by the International and European Federations of Journalists (IFJ and EFJ). IFJ’s president, Philippe Leruth, said: “Journalists should be able to investigate freely. The messenger is being punished [for his message].“This prison sentence sends a signal that critical journalism on fraud and corruption is not possible in Panama. Ornstein is being punished in a way that does not comply with the principles of a democratic justice system.”According to Ornstein’s lawyer, Channa Samkalden, Ornstein did not get due process during the criminal proceedings in Panama following a complaint from Freisner.NVJ is working with the Dutch foreign ministry and the Dutch embassy in Panama to secure Ornstein’s release.Ornstein, who works for Dutch broadcasters and Al-Jazeera, often writes about corruption and fraud cases on his bananamarerepublic blog (which is currently closed).His broadcasting work has been nominated for awards, such as the Prix Europa radio prize in 2013 and the Tegel prize in 2015.In the former instance, his radio documentary about the environmental consequences of a hydroelectric dam in Panama funded by a Dutch bank prompted questions in the Dutch parliament.Parents of transgender children fear their ex-partners will sue them for custody of their children after the high court ruled that a seven-year-old child who the mother perceives as transgender should be removed from her care.Four mothers of trans children have said their ex-partners have threatened to take them to court for custody of their child in the wake of the ruling, says Mermaids, an organisation that supports young trans people and their families, which also supported the mother in the high court case.“We have had four separate parents come forward, in cases where the ex-partner doesn’t agree with the child’s [gender] presentation,” said Susie Green, CEO of Mermaids. “All the ones that have come through so far have been the mum who has custody and the father is unsupportive.”One of these mothers was recently served with papers from her ex-partner beginning legal proceedings regarding the care of their child. She said her ex-partner has also indicated he will try to get a court order to prevent her from allowing their child to wear female clothing to school.The mother says that her former partner had initiated the proceedings after reading about last month’s high court decision, a ruling that she said “turned my family’s world upside down”.Green says the fathers have felt emboldened by the high court judgment, which ordered that a seven-year-old child should be removed from their mother because the judge ruled she had caused the child “significant emotional harm” through her determination they live “life entirely as a girl” despite being born male.“I find that she has overborne [the child’s] will and deprived him of his fundamental right to exercise his autonomy in its most basic way,” wrote Mr Justice Hayden. “This is not a case about gender dysphoria, rather it is about a mother who has developed a belief structure which she has imposed upon her child.”“[The fathers] have literally said: ‘I’ve seen this [the court ruling]. I’m going to take you to court,’” said Green. “Parents are very, very frightened, and rightly so.”Another mother, Miranda, said that a few days after the high court ruling in October she was contacted by her ex-partner, who threatened to take her to court to get their child, who was born female but now identifies as male and is known as Jake, removed from her care.“He’s quite pleased with the news [of the high court ruling] because he’s tried to have Jake taken off me in the past,” said Miranda. “I think he was almost trying to prove that it’s some kind of agenda that all single mothers have to get back at their ex-partners. He said: ‘Look, this mother’s done it too, forced their child to be of another gender.’”Miranda says her former partner is unsupportive of Jake’s new identity, which he believes Miranda has forced on him.“He thinks that our boy is still a girl – he’s supposed to have the clothing that Jake wants to wear, but he doesn’t,” said Miranda. “I still have female clothing if Jake chooses to wear it, you still have to be open to the possibility that he might turn around and say: ‘I’m Joanna again’, even though Jake’s telling me that’s never going to happen.”Miranda said that after reading the news about the high court ruling she was “petrified” the same thing could happen to her.“I just sat down and stared for quite some time,” she said. “I’m tired. I cry myself to sleep at night sometimes. But it is what it is. I know that it’s not a phase, you have an instinct for a reason, you’ve just got to fight for making sure your child’s happy.”Other parents also expressed fears to the Guardian that in supporting their child’s trans identity they might jeopardise their right to custody of the child if that were ever contested.Paula has a child who was born male, but identifies as a girl. She dressed in female clothes from the age of two, from the age of four she insisted on being called by female pronouns and would cry inconsolably at the thought of growing into a man, her mother said. She is now known as Emily.“All I’ve ever done is follow her lead. I’ve not always wanted a trans kid, it’s not like it’s my parenting dream,” said Paula.Paula says that Emily’s father, from whom she is separated, has found the situation difficult and recently said he was worried she was “putting ideas into [Emily’s] head” about cross-sex hormones, which are available to young people in the UK from the age of 16. The medication is available following a diagnosis of gender dysphoria from a gender identity clinic and after a year on hormone blockers.“It looks like I don’t have any rights here and I’m just kind of terrified about what would happen if social services were involved,” Paula said of the high court ruling. “Would they view me the same way that this woman was viewed?”Lucy who has a trans daughter, Evie, said that while her partner is supportive of their child’s identity, her mother is not and the court ruling has made her afraid.“You do question it: could somebody use that [a child’s gender identity] to take your child away from you? It makes me worried that she’s going to use that against me with social services.“You feel like you’ve done the right thing when you’ve helped your child transition. But then the court case comes out and you think: am I doing something wrong?”Sarah Cornes, head of family law at TWM solicitors, said that while high court rulings did create precedents, and “clearly there is going to be a lot of concern” among parents in reaction to the ruling, the decisions made about where children live and how long they spend with each parent are “usually very fact-specific”.“You can’t just say: there was a case and therefore everybody else’s situation will be affected. The overriding criteria in any case is what is in the best interests of the child,” said Cornes.“[Being transgender] is not a phenomenon that people can deny the existence of; it’s a question of what weight would be given to the stated wishes of the child to transition. And of course it depends on the age of the child; the younger the child the greater the extent that external factors will be considered.”* All names of parents and children have been changed.The delivery firm CitySprint is to become the latest British business embroiled in a legal dispute over the gig economy when it faces demands at an employment tribunal to treat its freelance couriers as workers.Mags Dewhurst, who has made deliveries for the firm for more than two years, will argue on Tuesday that she should be given worker status, and the rights that come with it, such as holiday pay and the national minimum wage.The case is the first of four against different courier firms that will be heard by the same judge. The other cases, against Addison Lee, eCourier and Excel, will be heard next year.Jason Moyer-Lee, the head of the Independent Workers Union of Great Britain (IWGB), which is backing the riders, said the cyclists worked for one company at a time and were obliged to take work they were given throughout the day.He said independent contractors were able to send others to do their work, but that was not possible for Dewhurst and the other riders.“Even though the courier firms say Mags can send a substitute, she can’t really, as there are restrictions that prevent that,” he said.Moyer-Lee said the point of the cases was to test the status of the workers. CitySprint, which has 3,500 self-employed couriers in the UK, could face further claims if the tribunal finds against it.Dewhurst said: “I’m taking this action because I have personal experience of [earning], and know many courier friends earn, below the national minimum wage. Our lives tend to be thrown into financial chaos when we want to go on holiday.“Worker status will finally redress some of the balance between couriers and courier companies, and transform our lives for the better. These benefits have for too long been withheld by courier companies and only serve to make it easier for them to exploit their workforce. It is time to afford couriers some basic employment rights.”An employment tribunal last month found in favour of drivers for the taxi-hailing firm Uber, who argued that they should be classed as workers. Uber has appealed against the ruling.Moyer-Lee said: “We were confident before the Uber case. [Dewhurst] fits all the criteria [of a worker] – so does pretty much any other pushbike courier I’ve met.”Matt Gingell, an employment law partner at Gannons Solicitors, said: “The employment tribunal may well be influenced by the Uber decision. But that judgment is not binding and the facts will be different in these cases.”A spokesman for CitySprint said: “We can confirm we have received notification of a tribunal claim. As you will appreciate, due to the legal process we cannot comment any further on this at this stage.”The tribunal is expected to start hearing evidence from witnesses on Wednesday.• This article was amended on 22 November 2016 to correct employment terminology.A new law is needed to criminalise impostors wearing military medals and decorations, the parliamentary defence committee has said, despite admitting there is only anecdotal evidence for the extent of it.Julian Lewis, chair of the committee whose report is published on Tuesday, described the impostors as “contemptible fantasists”.“Military impostors commit a specific harm that requires a specific criminal sanction. Other countries have sought to maintain these sanctions, for reasons of deterrence and punishment, while the United Kingdom has foolishly disposed of them,” he said.“We support the aim of the bill to remove this anomaly, and have called our report Exposing Walter Mitty, because those who seek public admiration by pretending to have risked their lives are contemptible fantasists who need to be deterred.”The committee says the law, which dates to the aftermath of the first world war, should have been revised rather than scrapped in 2006.The Ministry of Defence was wrong to decide that impostors could be prosecuted under other offences, and that there was a lack of clarity in the law, the committee says. It supports a private member’s bill, the awards for valour (protection) bill, sponsored by Gareth Johnson, the Conservative MP for Dartford, which is scheduled to have its second reading in the Commons on Friday.“The committee concludes that the deceitful wearing of decorations and medals is a specific harm which is insulting to the rightful recipients of these awards, damaging to the integrity of the military honours system and harmful to the bond between the public and the armed forces. This specific harm was considered to require a specific criminal sanction.”The report insists there is a “strong body of anecdotal evidence” of “tangible and identifiable harm”, but concedes the incidence is difficult to determine from official statistics. “The experience of encountering military impostors among the service charities which submitted evidence also seems to vary.”Internationally, the report notes that other countries have criminalised the deceitful use of decorations and medals, “to the extent that the lack of such protection in the United Kingdom can be considered exceptional”.In 2009 a Warwickshire man, Roger Day, was arrested and pleaded guilty to wearing 17 medals and an SAS tie pin when he joined a Remembrance Day parade. He was later reported to have sold the medals, which his wife had bought for him, believing she was replacing ones he had genuinely earned. The case against him was later withdrawn.At the time the MoD said the case was unusual because most of those who impersonated veterans were trying to extort free meals or drinks, or a bed for the night, rather than wanting to show off their decorations in public.Justice Duncan Ouseley’s ruling may result in the release from detention centres of hundreds of asylum seekers who have been torturedAnother lawsuit has been filed over the film London Fields – this time directed at actor Amber Heard.In the $10m suit filed by the film’s producers, Heard, who starred as Nicola Six in the adaptation of the 1989 Martin Amis novel, is alleged to have “breached performance and promotional obligations”, the Hollywood Reporter wrote.The star-studded film features Heard as a psychic who foresees her own murder, alongside actors Billy Bob Thornton and Jim Sturgess, with a cameo by her former husband Johnny Depp.London Fields was slated to make its debut at the Toronto film festival last year before being removed from the festival lineup after reports emerged that director Matthew Cullen would sue the producers for fraud, claiming they were marketing the film using his name despite debuting a version that he had nothing to do with. His suit against Christopher Hanley and other producers complained that footage of “9/11 jumpers edited against pornography” and a juxtaposition of “the holiest city in Islam against mind-control” had been inserted into the film.The producers called the cancellation an “ill-considered decision made against our rights” at the time. In a statement, Muse Productions said Cullen missed deadlines to submit a “director’s cut”. Hanley’s Nicola Six Limited then filed a cross-complaint against Cullen. This latest suit is listed as “closely related” to that complaint, according to the 24-page document posted online by Deadline.The suit against Heard, filed in Los Angeles superior court, stated that “Heard’s conspiracy, her campaign against the Picture, and her contractual breaches … have damaged the Picture, causing substantial harm to the Plaintiff, the Picture, and the Picture’s investors”. Among many claims, it alleged that she breached confidentiality obligations, failed to perform certain acting services and failed to comply with her publicity contract, according to the document. Later in the document, it states that her “misguided and unlawful conspiratorial campaign” against the film is ongoing.The film has received mostly poor reviews with the Guardian’s Henry Barnes calling it “awfully silly”.Hundreds of asylum seekers who are detained in UK immigration centres could be released after a high court judge ordered the government to review its policy on incarcerated torture survivors.Justice Duncan Ouseley ruled on Monday that the Home Office must immediately provide “relief” to detainees at an interim hearing, releasing survivors of torture from countries such as Afghanistan, Nigeria and Sri Lanka.Human rights lawyers, representing an initial 20 cases, had launched a legal challenge against the Home Office’s new definition of “torture” introduced in September, arguing that an unreasonably strict interpretation of the word meant that “potentially hundreds” of people have been illegally detained after claiming asylum in the UK.The Home Office accepts that asylum seekers who have survived torture should only be detained in exceptional circumstances. Its definition had previously included any act of torture by any individual or group – but it was redefined to refer to torture carried out by official state agents only.It is believed several hundred asylum seekers from the Middle East and Africa said they had been been tortured but are unable to prove their suffering was sanctioned by their country of origin, and have therefore been detained while claiming asylum in the UK.Examples of detained asylum seekers referenced in court on Monday include an Afghan man in his early 20s who was reportedly kidnapped and tortured by the Taliban because he refused to be groomed into joining them. The Afghan man was beaten with knives, sticks and a gun, and the court heard his injuries are consistent with his account. Last month the Home Office told him his case did not meet the new definition of torture.In another case, a Nepalese man said he was beaten, cut and and shot by a terrorist group in his home country. His ordeal is said to have lasted 15 days and he has scars consistent with his account but, again, his case was not held to meet the new definition.In his conclusion, Mr Justice Ouseley expressed concern that under the new policy a number of decisions had been reached unlawfully, concluding that “I should grant interim relief in the form [requested by lawyers for the claimants]”. Ousely went on to confirm the Home Office would revert back to its previous broader definition of torture while the legal challenge continues.A full hearing on the Home Office policy is scheduled for early next year but legal experts said that in the interim hundreds of asylum seekers would have to be released from immigration centres.Ouseley ruled that pending trial, references to “torture” should be taken to mean “any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted on a person for such purposes as obtaining from him or a third person information or a confession, punishing him for an act he or a third person has committed, or intimidating or coercing him or a third person, or for any reason based upon discrimination of any kind”.During the hearing, the Home Office also said independently of the legal challenge that it is reviewing 340 cases identified between 12 September and 18 November, where people who claim to have been tortured may have been wrongly detained.If they are deemed to be survivors of torture under the old definition, they will be released. Human rights lawyers say they have also identified other cases of detainees who they say have been tortured and who should be immediately released.Toufique Hossain, director of public law at Duncan Lewis which brought Monday’s challenge, welcomed the ruling. “We know from NGO groups and other firms that there are others – given that non-state torture is a common feature in those who are traumatised. Today’s decision could potentially affect hundreds of people.“We are asked for a suspension of the policy until the final outcome of the hearing. We want the current policy to be quashed and requested the immediate release of anyone currently detained [under it]. This decision will potentially protect hundreds of detainees. It really shouldn’t matter when assessing whether a person should be detained, if the perpetrators are state officials or not.”Rory Dunlop, the Home Office’s representative in court, said that to overturn a policy that had only been in place for two months was “a radical thing to do”.Theresa Schleicher, acting director of Medical Justice, a charity that works to improve the health of immigration detainees and is involved in this legal challenge, said: “We welcome today’s decision to suspend the narrower definition of torture and to revert to the previous, wider definition. It will mean that more vulnerable torture survivors will be protected from being detained and being harmed by detention.”The Home Office said: “We have noted the decision to grant interim relief at the procedural hearing. Given this is an ongoing legal case, for which there has yet to be a substantive hearing, we are unable to comment further.”• The subheading on this article was amended on 22 November 2016 to change a reference to prisons to detention centres.Rapper the Game has reportedly been ordered to pay $7.13m after being found guilty of sexual assault.According to TMZ, a court in Illinois found in favour of plaintiff Priscilla Rainey, a contestant on She’s Got Game, a dating show where women compete to date the Game.She sued him for $10m with claims that the 36-year-old was “out of control” and intoxicated which led him to grope her on multiple occasions in 2015. The Game’s legal team tried to discredit her by citing her background as a sex worker and time in a mental institution.It is not the first legal case for the star. He was arrested for assaulting a fan in 2005, charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest in the same year, arrested for threatening someone with a gun in 2007 and involved in a lawsuit for assault and battery in 2012.The Game initially broke out with hits such as How We Do, Hate It or Love It and Dreams, working with 50 Cent and Kanye West.The Commons home affairs committee is to hold talks on the future direction of the independent inquiry into child sex abuse after receiving letters detailing the concerns of four senior lawyers who have quit the inquest.A Home Office minister tried to reassure MPs on Monday that Prof Alexis Jay remains the right person to chair the troubled inquiry after the latest round of resignations and defections of survivors’ groups.The Commons home affairs committee, chaired by Labour’s Yvette Cooper, is to meet in private on Tuesday to discuss the future of an inquiry that is now on its fourth chair, after the resignation of 17 lawyers and the withdrawal of several survivors’ groups.The MPs are expected to order the publication later this week of letters from four barristers – including Hugh Davies QC, ex-deputy lead counsel to the inquiry – detailing their concerns over the conduct and management of the inquiry during the recent crises.One of the letters is reported to repeat the allegations made by a Labour MP, Lisa Nandy, who used parliamentary privilege to name the senior counsel to the inquiry, Ben Emmerson, QC, as the person accused of an alleged sexual assault at the inquiry’s London headquarters. It is believed to criticise the inquiry’s handling of the sexual assault allegation.Emmerson, who has been suspended from the inquiry, has denied the allegations as “categorically untrue” while the inquiry has said that no official complaint of sexual assault has been made.The home affairs committee is not expected to call for the inquiry to be closed down but a clear cross-party statement calling for Jay to be replaced by a judge and for its scope to be scaled back could prove highly influential.Nandy secured an urgent Commons question on Monday over the latest developments surrounding the inquiry including the withdrawal of the 600-strong Shirley Oaks survivors’ association – the largest group represented at the inquiry.In their resignation statement on Friday the group, which represents survivors of child sex abuse at Shirley Oaks care home in Lambeth, south London, said the inquiry had become “an unpalatable circus which has stumbled and lurched from crisis to crisis”.In the Commons, Sarah Newton, a junior Home Office minster, said the government remained confident that Jay was the right person to take it forward. She said that Shirley Oaks was only one of the victims’ groups represented at the inquiry and appealed to them to re-engage. “I am confident, as is the prime minister, as is the home secretary, in the ability of Professor Jay to lead this inquiry,” Newton told MPs. “She has a distinguished career in social work and a longstanding dedication to child protection.“She led the independent inquiry into child sexual exploitation in Rotherham, where she scrutinised the work of social workers, and proved her capability to uncover failings across institutions and professions. She is the right person to take this work forward.”But Nandy said it was the last chance for ministers to get a grip: “They have lost seven senior lawyers, three chairs and several survivors’ groups and it is now impossible to see that this inquiry is still [operating] effectively.“This may be the last chance that the prime minister and her home secretary have to rescue the inquiry that she set up, from collapse. Will she now stop hiding behind the smokescreen of independence (and) recognise that she has responsibility for this inquiry’s success and get a grip on it?”She found support from the shadow home secretary, Diane Abbott, who said the inquiry’s independent status did not mean that the Home Office could take no responsibility at all and allow the inquiry to run into the sands.Justice Duncan Ouseley’s ruling may result in the release from detention centres of hundreds of asylum seekers who have been torturedJim Killock, the executive director of the Open Rights Group, criticises the government’s plans to tackle children’s exposure to pornography on the internet by telling us that they will put the UK in the same bracket as Turkey and Saudi Arabia (Pornography sites face UK block under enhanced age controls, theguardian.com, 19 November).If that were true – which it isn’t – we have been there since at least 2002, when the court of appeal made clear in R v Perrin that, absent age verification, pornography publishers on the internet were liable to prosecution.However, since that decision there have been no cases, because all of the offending sites are based overseas. The government proposals are therefore simply a practical and pragmatic attempt to make it possible for our pre-existing laws to be enforced.They will not interfere with any adult’s right to view pornography but they may detain someone for a few seconds while they prove they are over 18. A familiar and not a major hardship.John CarrLondon• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersThe UK’s most senior judge, Lord Neuberger, has announced he will retire next summer and signalled the launch of a judicial appointments process that could – through offering flexible working practices – improve diversity on the supreme court bench.Confirming his departure, Neuberger, the president of the court, who is now 68, said that six new justices would be appointed over the next 18 months. There are normally 12 members of the supreme court. Only one, Lady Hale, the deputy president, is a woman. All are white. Only two of the present justices were not privately educated.Criticism of the composition of the judiciary has been mounting due to the fact that there are still relatively few senior female judges and only five high court judges from ethnic minority backgrounds. The justice secretary, Liz Truss, has pledged to introduce measures to improve diversity on the benches.In a speech to the Bar Council on Monday evening, Neuberger confirmed that he and Lord Clarke, another supreme court justice, would step down next summer. Lord Toulson retired in July but has not yet been replaced. Lords Hughes, Mance and Sumption will leave in 2018.In an attempt to improve diversity, Neuberger said there would be half-day “insight sessions” offered to prospective candidates where they would be given a tour of the court, allowed to spend time observing proceedings, and offered a private meeting with a current supreme court justice.The appointments will be in two batches of three positions each, to improve the chances of recruiting from a wider background. Information on “flexible working” would be offered in the job information pack for the first time.Neuberger said that he and Hale “wanted to have two composite recruitment competitions, one starting early next year to recruit three new justices, and the other starting in the first half of 2018 to recruit another three new justices”. “This has the advantages of much better use of time,” he said, “and much less of a burden on candidates. Even more importantly, it improves the prospect of a more diverse and more coherent recruitment to the court.“The higher echelons of the judiciary in the United Kingdom suffer from a marked lack of diversity and here I must admit the supreme court does not score at all well. “We have one white woman and 10 white men, and, although two of the 11 were not privately educated, none of us come from disadvantaged backgrounds.” Candidates are chosen on merit, but where there are two candidates of an equal standard there is provision for the one from a less represented background to be the one selected.The post of lord chief justice, currently held by Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, is also likely to fall vacant next year. Judges have to retire at the age of 70 unless appointed before 1995.Among the women whose names have been suggested as possible candidates for promotion is Lady Justice Hallett, an appeal court judge.Welcoming Neuberger’s announcement, Truss said: “The supreme court makes an immense contribution to our constitution, hearing cases of the utmost importance that impact upon the entire population. It is right that such a crucial institution taps into all the talents of our country. “That is why I wholeheartedly support the steps the court is taking to introduce a more flexible and open appointment process for supreme court judges. I urge people with the right qualities from all backgrounds to apply for these important positions.”The chairman of the bar, Chantal-Aimée Doerries QC, said: “The Bar Council and the bar will continue to support and work with the judiciary to raise awareness of judicial career opportunities to a wide talent pool, building on the substantial commitment we have made to ensure that the bar and the judiciary reflect more broadly the society they serve. “We already work closely with the Judicial Diversity Forum and the Judicial Appointments Commission. In addition, our existing Bar Mentoring Service is available to support those seeking judicial appointments from the bar. There is more to be done, and a collective effort from the bar, judiciary, lord chancellor and other parts of the legal sector will be essential to making a difference.”In your article (High court sends 10,000 prison officers back to work after justice secretary acts, 16 November), the head of the National Offender Management Service, Michael Spurr, was reported as saying that prisoners were not being unlocked, creating a dangerous situation.Prisoners not being unlocked is nothing new. In its 2014 report on HMP Isis, to take one example, the prison inspectorate had to recommend that prisoners be able to spend “a reasonable amount of time” out of their cells. Its 2016 report found that this had not been achieved and noted that 40% of prisoners were locked up during the core day (as well as from early evening till the morning) and that the regime had been “punitively restricted for several years”.The cause is not one day of action by prison officers, but staffing cuts imposed by the coalition government, and the failure of the current administration to address the increasingly dangerous situation across the prison system. Liz DuthieLondon• Michael Gove, in his Longford lecture (Report, theguardian.com, 18 November), complained about the state of our prisons caused by lack of funding. Can it be that he has forgotten that he was, until recently, the justice secretary; that he seemed ideally placed to deal with the scandalous conditions in the prisons, including the suicide rate of inmates; and that he deserted his responsibility there in order to join Farage/Johnson bandwagon?Had he continued with the vital work on the prisons he would still be respected. As it is, he and the three Brexit ministers should be forced to face the impossible task they have set themselves, and the ignominy that awaits them when it is acknowledged that they cannot both have the European cake and eat it.David HindmarshCambridge• Your editorial (Taking control of prisons starts by freeing those held for too long, 18 November) is spot-on. Prisoners not having release dates benefits nobody, causes problems for their eventual rehabilitation into society, and is costing the taxpayer needless expense.We need to keep up the pressure to stop indefinite detention for immigration purposes too. People are detained without any time limit, more and more are being detained for years. The UK is one of the few countries in the world that does not have a time limit on depriving people of their freedom, and we should be ashamed of this. Detention like this also achieves no purpose, wastes lives, and wastes money.Suzanne FletcherEaglescliffe, Stockton-on-Tees• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersA senior former manager is suing the Crown Prosecution Service for unfair and constructive dismissal in an employment claim that has exposed strains in the way cases are brought to trial.Lynne Townley, a barrister who worked for the CPS for 12 years, is alleging that she was not supported when dealing with other prosecutors, in particular one who dealt with high profile cases at the Old Bailey whom she alleged was “woefully inadequate”.Her claim before the central London employment tribunal has revealed clashes behind the legal scenes at a time when the service is under funding pressure.Townley, who left the CPS last year, was described by John Hardy QC, who is representing her, as having had a “glittering career”, including acting as a legal adviser to NHS England and holding visiting professorships at several overseas universities.Among her responsibilities, however, was managing a prosecutor whom, the tribunal was told, was later dismissed, reinstated and downgraded. “[This lawyer] was saddled with cases of considerable complexity,” Hardy said. “He was woefully inadequate and … an employee who was simply unmanageable.“There is a question of what backup [Townley] received. We would characterise the senior management as paralysed by indecision and displaying all the characteristics of institutional cowardice. What happened to Ms Townley was that she was given sticking plasters to cover gaping wounds. [She] was a prize employee who should have been treasured by the CPS. But she was threatened over her sickness absence over [this fiasco].”The dismissed CPS lawyer was removed for gross misconduct as the result of a case at the central criminal court, Hardy said, following “scathing criticism from the police officer in the case.” He was later offered reinstatement. Townley, Hardy said, ended up facing dismissal and being refused any compensation. Saul Margo, the barrister representing the CPS, said the issue was whether the dismissed CPS lawyer was not just “difficult but impossible to manage”. He was being effectively managed by the claimant, Margo said. What was behind the case, he said, was the fact that Townley had twice sought to make use of the early, voluntary release scheme. “She asked for severance from the service and a financial offer,” he said.The dismissed CPS lawyer was not impossible to manage, Margo said. She did manage him. “The last straw argument doesn’t work,” he saidA judge who used to work at the CPS is due to give evidence in the case this week. The employment judge, Anthony Snelson, said although the case had begun, it was not too late for the parties to reconsider settling rather than continuing “taking lumps out of each other”.Lawyers challenging the government’s right to trigger Britain’s exit from the European Union without a vote in the House of Commons are to invoke a “radical revolutionary tradition” enshrined in Scottish law for more than 300 years.The Independent Workers Union of GB, which was set up to represent workers in the so-called gigeconomy, has told the supreme court that the government would be in breach of Scottish constitutional law if it were to trigger article 50 without Westminster’s agreement.The IWGB has hired the constitutional lawyer Aidan O’Neill QC, who has challenged the UK government’s claim that it has the prerogative to trigger article 50 without a parliamentary vote in his submission.Echoing the Scottish government’s case to the court, O’Neill says that because leaving the EU involves each part of the UK, the court must take account of Scotland’ constitutional law and in particular the Claim of Right Act 1689, signed the year after England’s weaker Bill of Rights was drafted. It codified the “radical revolutionary tradition” in Scotland that a monarch was always answerable to the law and the people, in this case its parliaments, he says.O’Neill says the court must also take contemporary issues into account, such as the rights of EU migrant workers and trade union members the IWGB represents.The UK government is expected to vigorously contest these arguments in next month’s hearing, but they add to the increasingly complex legal battle over Brexit.Theresa May’s government has confirmed it would not be shifting its position on whether article 50 could ever be reversed, despite speculation of a U-turn.In its skeleton argument (pdf)released last Friday, the attorney general, Jeremy Wright QC, and other lawyers on the government’s legal team state: “Before the [high court] it was common ground between the parties that an article 50 notification is irrevocable and cannot be given conditionally ... [The supreme] court is invited to do the same.”The Scottish and Welsh governments have already been allowed to take part in the action, which was brought by Gina Miller, an investment manager, and Deir Dos Santos, a hairdresser, increasing the scope of the case.In a further development on Monday, it emerged that Northern Ireland’s attorney general, John Larkin QC, is now expected now to take part in the hearing, increasing the chances that the cross-border deal with the Republic of Ireland in the Good Friday agreement will also become part of the legal argument.Mick Antoniw, counsel general for the Welsh government, said the future of the UK’s devolution framework was at stake. “The attorney general for Northern Ireland will appear before this court because he is a party to that claim [which] raises such important issues for the devolution framework in the United Kingdom as a whole,” he said.Scotland’s chief law officer has also been asked to address the 11 supreme court judges on specific areas of Scottish law that are affected by Brexit. In a brief submission to the court, the lord advocate, James Wolffe QC, said the claim of right made “a unilateral act of the crown” on this issue unlawful.O’Neill’s submission argues: “The contemporary significance and resonance of this Scottish tradition is clear in the present case. In effect, the Scottish constitutional tradition is not that the crown has plenipotentiary imperial prerogative ‘Henry VIII’ powers unless and until these are expressly limited by parliament.“Rather the Scottish constitutional tradition is that the crown, the government, only has such powers as are expressly granted to it by the people gathered together in a representative assembly.”The Scottish government and O’Neill also raise the Sewel convention, a rule introduced at the time of Scottish and Welsh devolution in 1999, which says both devolved parliaments have to approve any act of Westminster that affects their powers.Wolffe’s submission calls it a convention and so not a legally binding veto, but O’Neill goes further and says that because it is recent legislation, Sewel has legal force. If the supreme court agrees, that would effectively give the Scottish parliament a veto over the Brexit bill.Aileen McHarg, a professor of public law at the University of Strathclyde, was sceptical about O’Neill’s arguments. She said he was right to argue that Scotland and England historically had different views about a monarch’s privileges, but that was not same as their powers.O’Neill’s argument that the monarch could only act in this way with the explicit approval of a parliament was very unusual, she said. “This claim is not supported by any authority, and I have never before seen it suggested that there is any difference between Scots and English law in this regard,” she said.If his arguments were accurate, then nothing done by the UK or Scottish government which uses prerogative powers would be lawful because they had no explicit legal authority to use them, she added.British ministers have acted like overexcited cheerleaders for Bahrain’s woefully inadequate human rights reforms, Amnesty International has said, ahead of an expected visit next month by Theresa May on the sidelines of the annual Gulf Cooperation Council summit.Ministers ought to be confronting the awkward reality that the institutions set up in Bahrain with UK support “are seriously flawed and widely seen as a PR exercises”, Amnesty said.The report, based on 90 interviews with Bahraini human rights activists, said it is “utterly disingenuous” of the British government to pretend it is delivering substantial human rights reform in Bahrain.There is controversy over the value and independence of two UK-supported human rights institutions. Britain also has longstanding military links with Bahrain and is establishing a new military base in the kingdom. The Foreign Office said the two institutions show the government in Manama is willing to respond to western pressure.The bodies, the ombudsman of the ministry of interior and the special investigations unit within the public prosecution, were established in 2012 following a fierce crackdown by the Bahraini government on protests the previous year.The then foreign secretary Philip Hammond said Bahrain had been making significant reform, telling the House of Commons it was “a country which is travelling in the right direction”.However, Amnesty said the special investigations unit has failed to take prompt action to protect detainees from torture, investigate their allegations effectively or ensure their access to medical care.It pointed out that although it was obvious Hussain Jawad, a prominent Bahraini human rights activist, was at risk of torture following his arrest in February 2015, the ombudsman’s office “failed to carry out a prompt visit to check the conditions of his detention”.Jawad later said he was blindfolded, beaten with his hands cuffed behind his back and threatened with sexual abuse in order to extract a confession.Amnesty also said the ombudsman’s office delayed an investigation for two years into the torture allegations of Mohamed Ramadhan, an airport security guard sentenced to death after being convicted of involvement in a bomb attack, despite receiving information from his family and an international NGO.The special investigations unit has prosecuted 93 members of the security forces, but only 15 low-ranking officials have been convicted, Amnesty noted. No senior officers or officials who oversaw the serious human rights violations during the 2011 uprising have faced prosecution.Out of nearly 200 cases Amnesty has recorded since the uprising, fewer than 45 have been referred to trial. The organisation pointed out that neither human rights body has gained the public’s trust, partly as a result of a perceived lack of independence and impartiality.Both are viewed as being too close to the interior ministry and other government institutions, and having failed to keep families and victims adequately informed of progress in their investigations.In the most widely known case, Nabeel Rajab is facing up to 15 years in prison for free speech offences that include writing an article critical of the government in the New York Times.Amnesty International UK’s head of policy and government affairs, Allan Hogarth, said: “It was a welcome move when Bahrain set up these two bodies back in 2012, but it’s utterly disingenuous of the UK government to pretend they’re delivering substantial human rights reform in Bahrain.“Instead of acting as overexcited cheerleaders for Bahrain’s woefully inadequate reforms, UK ministers ought to be confronting the awkward reality that these UK-backed institutions are seriously flawed and widely seen as a PR tool of the Bahraini government.”Amnesty said authorities have placed severe restrictions on the right of Bahrainis to participate in demonstrations and other forms of peaceful assembly. There is an indefinite ban on all public demonstrations in the capital.The security forces regularly disperse unauthorised protests, which mostly occur in Shia villages when protesters demand the release of political prisoners, sometimes using excessive force including teargas and shotgun pellets, it said.Riot officers have been sent into a prison to deal with a disturbance, the government has confirmed, only two weeks after as many as 200 prisoners were involved in a riot at another facility.Sunday’s news comes after prison officers were ordered by a judge to abandon a planned strike over an increase in violence in a system they said was in meltdown.The Ministry of Justice confirmed that its Tornado team, prison officers trained to quell riots, had been ordered into HMP Moorland, near Doncaster – a category C prison, and dealt with a situation involving about 10 prisoners in the early hours of Monday.A Prison Service spokeswoman later said: “Specially trained staff have successfully resolved an isolated incident involving a small number of prisoners on one wing at HMP Moorland.“We are absolutely clear that prisoners who behave in this way will be punished and could spend significantly longer behind bars.”Earlier, she said some prisoners had been removed from the wing but was unable to say exactly how many, nor was she able to give any further detail on the nature of the disturbance.Two weeks ago, the Prison Service was forced to launch an investigation after a riot at Bedford prison took officers six hours to bring under control. An inspection of the facility in September found that conditions had fallen to “unacceptable levels”, with prisoners easily able to get hold of illegal drugs.Last week, the Prison Officers’ Association and the justice secretary, Liz Truss, agreed to reopen talks after the high court’s order that the union’s proposed 24-hour strike involving up to 10,000 staff be called off.The POA had said that a “continued surge in violence and unprecedented levels of suicide and acts of self-harm ... demonstrate that the service is in meltdown”.The report on Amber Rudd not actually reading the evidence (11 November) held by South Yorkshire police on its operation at Orgreave during the 1984 miners’ strike, and the subsequent collapsed prosecutions, reflects the contempt and lack of respect that the government has had for the Orgreave Truth and Justice Campaign (OTJC). In her letter to the OTJC explaining her decision not to grant an independent public inquiry she states: “I am satisfied that policing today is now very different from how it was in 1984 ... I am of the view that in light of ... reforms and changes there would be very few, if any, lessons for the policing system today to be gleaned from reviewing the events and practices of 1984.” But the actual detailed evidence accumulated by the campaign surely points to the contrary. Furthermore, the acquittal of 10 of the Rotherham 12 (Report, 17 November), arrested by South Yorkshire police while defending their communities against racist attacks, shows that policing and police tactics have not changed at all. There is surely now an even more urgent need for an inquiry into Orgreave as well as policing in Rotherham.David Etherington and Kate FlannerySheffield• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersVital interrogation of the science behind cryogenically freezing humans is being stifled because scientists fear being ostracised and ridiculed, according to a leading researcher in the field.The cryobiologist Ramon Risco said scientists risked damaging their careers and being excluded from scientific societies if they worked on cryonics, the controversial science used last month to freeze the body of a 14-year-old cancer victim.“There is an enormous ‘stigma bias’ to the conversation about cryonics among scientists,” said Risco, who works on the cryopreservation of large human organs and tumour biopsies at the CryoBioTech cryobiology laboratory at the University of Seville. “For scientists who would like to discuss it open-mindedly it tends to significantly hurt their career – in fact can potentially even get them kicked out of their scientific societies.”The claim comes after the father of the teenage girl, who was granted her dying wish to have her body cryogenically frozen, accused those who provide the service of taking advantage of vulnerable people.The high court upheld the wishes of the teenager, known only as JS, who decided before her death from cancer that she wanted her body to be preserved in the hope that she could be brought back to life at a later time. Her estranged father initially opposed her wishes but changed his mind saying it was “the last and only thing she has asked from me”.But in an interview with the Mail on Sunday, he said that after discussions with the Cryonics Institute in Detroit, where his daughter’s body is stored, he remained strongly opposed.“I believe they are selling false hope to those who are frightened of dying, taking advantage of vulnerable people,” he said. “When I asked if there was even a one in a million chance of my daughter being brought back to life, they could not say there was.”But Risco argued that cryonics could not be dismissed solely as science fiction, and said it was likely that in five to 10 years experts would be able to revive a small mammal such as a mouse after it had been preserved in liquid nitrogen.“It is very risky to say that anything is impossible in science or technology in the 21st century – people who use the word impossible are very brave,” he said. “If you are looking for the truth, why would you put barriers up?”Risco also founded a start up, SafePreservation which enables customers to cryopreserve their biological material.Prof Anders Sandberg, a research fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, said scientists reliant on grants and looking for tenures might exercise self-censorship. “Many young scientists are afraid to hurt their careers,” he said. “Talking about the future can be very career-limiting. Being seen to be eccentric in the wrong way is frowned upon.”Cryonics enthusiasts argue that the stigma surrounding the area could leave people vulnerable to unscrupulous companies ready to fill the void left by science.Tim Gibson of the non-profit group Cryonics UK, which prepared the 14-year-old’s body for transportation to the freezing facility in Michigan, said the group, all of whose staff are volunteers, would welcome regulation.“The danger for us is that as the idea gets more publicity, companies wanting to make a profit could spring up and damage us by [taking advantage of clients],” he said.The judge who ruled on the 14-year-old’s case was critical of how the process had been carried out, stating: “The voluntary organisation is said to have been under-equipped and disorganised, resulting in pressure being placed on the hospital to allow procedures that had not been agreed.”Gibson disputed that, saying body preparation and freezing had been done “within the law and required protcols” despite a “mechanical failure” which meant an ambulance used by the group was substituted by a van.Gibson said the group’s Facebook page membership had increased by 25%, to around 400, since Friday. “The phone has not stopped ringing and I have about 200 emails to answer,” he said.Clive Coen, a professor of neuroscience at King’s College London, has called for a ban on the marketing of cryonics. He said the idea of preserving a whole body was “ridiculous” and a whole brain “only slightly less ridiculous”.The cosmologist and astrophysicist Martin Rees said he did not believe research was being stifled. “There are serious people working on it and they are aware that, though embryos can be preserved, it’s immensely unlikely that it would ever work for humans,” said Rees. “But even if it were a desirable development – and I actually think it wouldn’t be – most serious scientists would choose not to work on it because they don’t think the problem is timely or tractable.”But those interested in the area who were hopeful that scientific developments could see the reanimation of humans who had been cryogenically frozen would continue to work under the radar, said Risco.He added that “unconventional concepts” such as in vitro fertilisation, space travel and organ transplantation had all suffered “initial bias”.“We don’t need to start making a big polemic,” he said. “We will keep on working on organ cryopreservation, no one will call us crazy and eventually we will end up with a solution for the whole body.”The Serious Fraud Office will on Monday ask a London employment tribunal to hear an unfair dismissal claim by a former senior banker at Barclays in private.The attempt to deter reporting of the case will be challenged by a number of news outlets – including the Guardian – and comes as the SFO continues its investigation into Barclays’ emergency cash call during the 2008 banking crisis.The unfair dismissal case is being brought by Richard Boath, who until March was chairman of financial services at Barclays and has been interviewed by the SFO as part of its long-running investigation.Few details about his claim are known although he is reported to be making the case under whistleblower protection laws. This means the potential payout is unlimited, unlike the £78,000 cap that applies to tribunals.The SFO said it was “seeking orders that the hearings be held in private so as to preserve the confidentiality of the claimant’s interview by the SFO, and that there should be corresponding restrictions on the publication of such matters”. It added that an alternative would be “for the parties not [to] be permitted to refer to the contents of the claimant’s interview by the SFO in these proceedings”.The SFO has said it will decide by March 2017 whether to bring charges in connection to the events in 2008 when Barclays avoided a taxpayer bailout by raising £7bn from investors, including in the Middle East.The bank is contesting a £50m fine by the City regulator in relation to the fundraising during which the Financial Conduct Authority said it “acted recklessly” over the disclosure of £322m of fees paid to Qatar Holdings. The FCA penalty has been put on hold while the SFO continues its investigation, which Barclays has previously said includes its ex-finance director Chris Lucas.Barclays has said it disclosed this fee arrangement in the first fundraising in June 2008, but not in the following one in October 2008.The SFO had raised the possibility last year of offering Barclays a deferred prosecution agreement, which would require cooperation from companies that in turn need to admit to offences, although this appears to have come to nothing.Barclays declined to comment ahead of the tribunal. It is contesting a £721m claim by Amanda Staveley – a financier who helped the bank find billions of pounds during 2008 – who argues she should have received fees for being involved in the the crucial financings.A leading Republican voice on national security matters says he doesn’t care what president-elect Donald Trump says, the United States will not reinstate waterboarding.Senator John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the armed services committee, said on Saturday that any attempt to bring back harsh tortures such as waterboarding, which simulates drowning, would quickly be challenged in court.“I don’t give a damn what the president of the United States wants to do or anybody else wants to do. We will not waterboard. We will not do it,” McCain said to applause during a panel discussion at the Halifax international security forum.McCain, who was tortured as a prisoner of war during the Vietnam War, said extreme interrogation techniques are banned under US law and the Geneva conventions.During the campaign, Trump said he would push to change laws that prohibit waterboarding, which was used against suspected terrorists during the George W Bush administration.McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee, said waterboarding didn’t work and made it hard for the US to claim moral superiority.“What does it say about America if we’re going to inflict torture on people?” he asked.McCain also expressed support for the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico and said the United States should not back out of the not-yet-implemented Trans-Pacific Partnership. As a candidate, Trump said Nafta should be renegotiated and opposed the TPP, arguing that such trade agreements cause significant job losses in the US.“I think we are going to pay a terrible price for abandoning the TPP,” McCain said.“You are going to see Chinese assertion of economic influence in the region, and possible dominance. All of these countries are now going to join with China in trade agreements and we’re going to be out in the cold.“Historians will judge us very harshly.”‘London, that great cesspool into which all the loungers and idlers of the Empire are irresistibly drained” was what Sherlock Holmes’s companion, Dr Watson, thought of the capital. Well, this week a cross-party coalition of MPs will be trying to drain the mire of its dirtiest elements.The government’s criminal finances bill, with its crackdown on unexplained foreign wealth, secretive shell companies and high-level tax evasion, is a smart attempt to end London’s culture of money-laundering. But if we are really going to stop the capital’s property being used as a reserve currency by global kleptocrats, we have to go further. For London’s historic place at the heart of the empire has endowed it with the networks and skills, from the Square Mile to Caribbean tax havens, to become one of the world’s leading hubs for the dispersal and camouflaging of dubious funds.In the late 19th century, as the scramble for Africa extended the British empire, London’s banks and accountancy firms funnelled cash around the colonies. Joseph Chamberlain called the City “the clearing-house of the world”, financing mining in New South Wales and tea plantations in India. In EM Forster’s Howards End, Henry Wilcox is said to have the “colonial spirit” as he successfully enriches himself at the Imperial and West Africa Rubber Company. With the capital flowed the ships and steamers out of the Thames, sitting on board one of which was Joseph Conrad’s traumatised Marlow, with his Congo tales of venturing “into the heart of an immense darkness”.The National Crime Agency says up to £90bn is laundered through the UK each year, while an estimated £120bn worth of UK property is owned by offshore shell companies. Some 75% of properties whose owners are under investigation for corruption made use of offshore corporate secrecy to hide their identities. And according to the director of the National Crime Agency, “the London property market has been skewed by laundered money. Prices are being artificially driven up by overseas criminals who want to sequester their assets here in the UK.”Those assets are far too often being extracted from developing nations desperately in need of tax revenues. A century on from Heart of Darkness, the Democratic Republic of the Congo still ranks near the bottom of the UN Human Development Index, with one in seven children dead before the age of five. And, as in Conrad’s time, London’s imperial connections are helping to facilitate the exploitation of this asset-rich nation. Diamond and mineral wealth is being extracted by political elites, funnelled via London to old remnants of empire in the overseas territories, then repatriated via Kensington townhouses back to the UK. Our financial, accountancy and property agents are the beneficiaries, the people of the DRC and househunters of London the losers.When the Panama Papers revealed the extent of global tax haven exploitation, the government responded with the criminal finances bill. It introduces unexplained wealth orders to unearth the sources of suspect assets, gives crime agencies more time to investigate complex networks behind shell companies and goes after companies that assist with criminally facilitating tax evasion. I want to do more, with amendments that urge the publication of a list of UK property held by foreign companies so we can find out the real owners. We need companies convicted of a failure to prevent tax evasion to be excluded from public procurement. And I am supporting an annual parliamentary report on unexplained wealth orders so we create a culture change at the top of government.We are told that much of London’s success is because of its unimpeachable legal system and absence of corruption. But that is no good if, under the banner of the rule of law, we are also aiding and abetting exploitation.In Surrey mansions and Mayfair sit the lost wealth, the never-built hospitals and unopened schools of too many developing nations. London still houses the loungers and idlers of empire, growing rich from the spoils of exploitation. It is time today’s Sherlocks had the tools they need to straighten out the City’s finances.A campaign to push for abortion to be removed from the justice statutes and decriminalised is to be launched this month by the country’s newest political party.Sophie Walker, leader of the non-partisan Women’s Equality party, said it was time that abortion was made a sexual health and human rights issue, rather than left languishing under “Victorian criminal law”, where a life prison sentence still exists for procuring a termination. This is a flagship policy for the party, which will hold its first conference in Manchester next weekend. It hopes that with pressure from its supporters, other political parties will take up the issue.The current legislation governing abortion is the 1861 Offences Against the Person Act, which came into force decades before women had the vote.Abortion is part of life in mainland Britain: one in three women will have an abortion before the age of 45, with the highest rate among 21-year-olds. Rates have remained fairly constant over the past few years, higher in England and Wales than in Scotland, with 197,906 Britons and 5,190 non-British residents having an abortion last year. About 98% are NHS-funded and the vast majority, 80%, carried out at less than 10 weeks pregnant.Under the 1861 act, and as amended by the Abortion Act 1967, abortion remains a criminal offence; only cases that meet certain caveats are exempt from prosecution. Two doctors must sign to confirm that a woman’s or her unborn child’s health and welfare is at risk, resulting, say campaigners, in the law simply being circumvented in many cases. And it is also open to political interference. The British Pregnancy Advisory Service believes the rules work only because health professionals work around them.The WE party has grown to more than 65,000 members and 65 regional groups since its inception last year. It fielded its first political candidates at local and regional elections this year, including for the London mayor.“This is really about making it very clear that women’s healthcare rights are human rights,” said Walker. “That is why we want to debate this motion at our first conference and to put a focus on prioritising and funding sexual health and wellbeing. If you are denied control over your own body then you are denied so many other controls over your life. Any denial of reproductive rights is a form of violence against women, and the massive funding cuts ongoing in the UK are part of a real trend that is de-prioritising equality.”Former Progressive Unionist party leader Dawn Purvis is on the advisory board of Marie Stopes International, which provides contraception and safe abortion services. She is to give a keynote speech at the WE party conference on the position in Northern Ireland, where several prosecutions are under way of women who have used the so-called “abortion pill”.“The situation in Northern Ireland is different to mainland Britain in that, basically, a woman has to be about to die before she is allowed a termination,” Purvis said. “Rape or incest or foetal abnormality are not circumstances under which an abortion will be allowed. We’re seeing women being prosecuted and convicted as criminals – one was reported by her GP after she had gone to him for help, another is a woman being prosecuted for helping her daughter.“But thankfully we are seeing more and more legal challenges – late last year we had a ruling that the stance of the Ministry of Justice was incompatible with international standards on human rights.”Diana Johnson, Labour MP for Kingston upon Hull North, has tabled a 10-minute bill for the spring when she will also raise the issue of decriminalising abortion. She does not want to change time limits but wants medical procedures to be governed by clinicians, rather than the criminal law.“That any woman procuring an abortion is potentially facing a prison sentence of life under legislation dating from 1861 is patently something that needs looking at carefully,” she said. “Decriminalising abortion, for both health professionals and for women, would put the issue with clinicians and health experts, where it belongs.”Senior Tories have urged Theresa May to scrap the government’s appeal against a high court ruling which states that parliament must vote on leaving the EU.Oliver Letwin, the former head of the government’s Brexit preparations, has called on the prime minister to abandon its supreme court appeal over the decision on article 50, the mechanism that triggers exit negotiations.The former attorney general Dominic Grieve and former solicitor-general Sir Edward Garnier also said May should avoid taking the case to the UK’s highest court.The three Conservatives, who all supported the remain campaign, said they wanted the process to start as soon as possible with a bill in parliament.Garnier told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Saturday: “That way you avoid an unnecessary legal row, you avoid a lot of unnecessary expense, but you also avoid an opportunity for ill-motivated people to attack the judiciary, to misconstrue the motives of both parties to the lawsuit, and you provide certainty.”Letwin, a former minister who was director of the “Brexit unit” after the referendum, said avoiding the supreme court would avert the risk of judges granting veto powers to devolved administrations.Grieve told Today the government’s chances of success at the supreme court hearing, scheduled to start on 5 December, were low. “I can’t see the point in the government continuing with the case and also agree that if they enact primary legislation, they will get it through parliament,” he said.Three high court judges ruled on 3 November that the prime minister does not have the power to trigger article 50 on her own. The government quickly announced that it would appeal against the decision.A spokesman for the Department for the Exit of the European Union said: “The country voted to leave the European Union in a referendum approved by an act of parliament and the government is determined to respect that result.“We will robustly defend our position in the forthcoming appeal. As the prime minister made clear [on Friday], our work is on track and we remain committed to triggering article 50 by the end of March next year.”The Tory former education secretary Nicky Morgan backed the calls for May to drop the case.Morgan, a prominent remain supporter, told LBC radio: “I think it would be a good thing if the government did abandon the appeal to the supreme court and they got on with a short act of parliament, so parliament can get on with saying yes to the government triggering article 50.“We can get on then with negotiating the terms on which we are going to leave, the terms on which we are going to continue to have a relationship with the EU going forward.”The former Scottish first minister Alex Salmond said the Tories’ comments showed their contempt for Scotland’s rights.The SNP’s Europe spokesman said: “Sir Oliver Letwin and co have now blurted out the true blue Tory attitude towards Scotland. They would even rather abandon the Brexit appeal than take any chance of the supreme court being sensitive to Scottish European concerns.“Every Tory in Scotland should cringe with embarrassment as the Tory contempt for Scotland’s rights as a nation has been laid bare. The trouble for the Tories in Scotland is that their Westminster colleagues have been caught telling the truth about their anti-Scottish prejudices.” Two years ago, my partner and I finally wrote proper wills. The basic instructions for guardianship of our young children, written years before, were no longer fit-for-purpose. We were prompted by Will Aid, a charitable scheme that runs every November. It was hard to resist its logic: it is irresponsible not to sort out your affairs and, doing it this way, solicitors waive their fees and instead you make a charitable donation. This was compelling, but it was surprisingly hard to get round to doing, which might explain why half the UK population don’t have valid wills.Part of my reluctance, including superstitions that disaster would follow my writing it, was typical, according to Will Aid’s research. But my partner and I had also had experiences of wills stirring up uncomfortable emotions. My father, with no property to dispense, bequeathed me his chaotic stamp collection. It reminded me of his last, sad years and I hid it away until finally disposing of it. Badly. For years, I felt I’d let him down. My partner’s experience was more pointed – an unsatisfactory letter from his mother explaining her decision to leave her house to stepchildren and grandchildren rather than her sons.Once I started asking around, I found that surprising numbers of people have had experiences of wills that left them puzzled or, as in the case of Paul Rodgers, still upset after 20 years. Paul, in his 40s, is a successful professional living in London, who received a financial legacy when his grandfather died. But his grandfather delivered a wounding blow with his last wishes.Paul’s grandfather, David, was a big figure in his early life. “Big in every sense,” says Paul. “He was a dominant personality. He was brilliant. He’d been to a top university and was a national bridge champion. He was involved in early work in PR, which really took off in America in the 40s and 50s. He was a smart, funny person. I admired him.” Paul knew his grandfather had a cruel side; he’d witnessed him philandering and seen him putting down his son, Paul’s father. But since Paul’s relationship with his own father was difficult, he saw his grandfather as an ally.“My father was also very bright, but he was one of those people who couldn’t quite make it. His life had never really come together. He had never managed to have a good career, he never finished his degree, and he sometimes had to ask his father for money. He was charming but he had a horrible temper. We were never violently treated but, emotionally, we were scared of him. It was kind of fun to have someone put him in his place.”This view of his grandfather as an ally and idol was shattered on his death. Paul, by then living in London, was summoned back to the US when his grandfather became ill, joining family members at the bedside. The day after he died, the family found his will and a letter requesting that it should be read by Paul, who was named as executor.Paul now regrets that he didn’t read it first. “I started reading it out to my family and you don’t know from the first sentence where it’s going. And I couldn’t stop reading it. What do you do? I’m quite dutiful. So I probably just felt I’ve been told to read this letter so I’ll just read it. If it was now, I might not do that.” The letter was addressed to his son, Paul’s father, “basically telling him what a fuck-up he was all his life, how little respect he had for him every step of the way. It was just the cruellest thing you can imagine. It was a chronicle of my father’s failings. ‘You have been a disappointment. You have borrowed money from me. Your life has been a mess.’ The tone was nasty in a clinical way.”Paul still lives with a sense of guilt that his grandfather recruited him to wound his own father like this from beyond the grave. But if his grandfather felt Paul would enjoy a shared role in delivering this blow, he miscalculated. Paul couldn’t stop himself reading the letter, but his mind was in revolt. “I remember my father sitting there quietly, stoically, listening to this letter and not doing anything. The only thing my father said was, ‘Well, there you are then.’ In an instant, my opinion of my grandfather changed from being funny, brilliant, smart, talented, and often generous, to being cruel. Simple. One word. Cruel.”Paul thinks that his grandfather’s motivation was pure spite. “He and his wife were both vain and narcissistic. He had an image and he wanted everything a certain way.” Paul thinks a sense of entitlement and power reinforced this narcissism. They wanted their children to be in their image. “He was just so talented if they didn’t meet his expectations he was perpetually disappointed.”Mark Accettura, author of Blood and Money, mentions narcissism as one of the personality disorders that underlie spiteful “toxic wills” and last letters. “I used to believe naively that inheritance fights were instigated by greedy heirs,” he says. “I had fallen into the trap of blaming the living and pardoning the dead. Over time I began to appreciate that in many, if not most, cases, the decedent himself or herself was a central part of the problem: they just weren’t physically present to fight over the mess they had a hand in creating.”Occasionally, bad behaviour on the part of the deceased is recognised for what it is. In 2014 – unusually given a cornerstone of British law is the right to leave your property to whomever you wish – a judge found in favour of Heather Ilot, who challenged her mother’s will. Melita Jackson had explicitly disinherited Heather, leaving considerable property to animal charities. Their conflict had started when Heather was 17 and ran away with her boyfriend, whom Melita disapproved of. Melita never forgave her even though Heather went on to marry Nicholas who is still her husband and father of their five children. The judge accepted the barrister’s description of Melita as an “unreasonable, capricious and harsh mother”.Denise Jones runs Lovingly Managed, a company of bereavement coordinators. She says that surprising numbers of people seem set on creating emotional havoc, either because they are not clear about their wishes or because they are engaging in emotional warfare. “I come across a lot of people disinheriting their children. It’s often because the kids don’t bother with them and usually because there’s been a huge falling out and they don’t speak any more. One person said, ‘I’d rather give to the dog’s home than let that bitch get it.’ Sometimes it’s because the child has married someone they don’t like. I also get quite a few people wanting to give it to their neighbours because they feel their children have neglected them.”Jones thinks the potential for wills to cause havoc has increased. Because of house price increases, the higher value of estates tempts damaged people to use wills as weapons in a fight. Higher values also make those disinherited more inclined to challenge wills and with increasing numbers of stepfamilies, the chances of wills being inadequate to the situation escalate. People don’t realise, she says, “that when someone remarries that immediately invalidates other wills”. This means biological children can end up cut out of any inheritance. “Step-parents say, ‘Oh no! My kids would never do that,’” says Jones, “until it comes to cold hard cash.”Wills and last wishes letters are the final words from the dead, written when people contemplate their own end and are swayed by strong feelings about their relationships with children and family, about who needs help and who doesn’t, about how they want to be remembered. Wills are emotional documents as much as financial and practical ones and thus have the potential for creating havoc and distress if unclear or used as weapons.Jones doesn’t see her role as stopping people doing what they want with their money, but she does gently say, “Don’t you think it would be a good idea to leave some to a blood relation? Even if you don’t leave it to the children, perhaps there’s a grandchild, because being disinherited leaves a legacy of pain.”Wills aren’t often discussed openly. But Jones thinks more openness might help people think clearly about what they are doing and the consequences. “I’m cynical about human nature,” she says and “anything could go wrong” in terms of respecting the wishes of the deceased or the havoc created by a vicious will. “I don’t want to scare people, but I explain all the worse-case scenarios and how to avoid them by thinking through what the end result will be.”If you would like to communicate with Ros directly about this subject, please email r.coward@roehampton.ac.ukThe father of a 14-year-old girl whose remains have been frozen after a high court judge’s ruling said he last saw his daughter alive nine years ago and did not get to view her body before it was cryogenically preserved.The teenager, who died on 17 October, was terminally ill and had wanted her remains to be frozen in the hope she could be revived in the future.But her divorced parents became embroiled in a dispute relating to whether her remains should be taken to a specialist facility in the United States and cryogenically frozen.The girl, who lived in the London area with her mother and had a rare form of cancer, had taken legal action.She had asked Mr Justice Peter Jackson to rule that her mother – who supported her wish to be cryogenically preserved – should be the only person allowed to make decisions about the disposal of her body.Ultimately, Mr Justice Jackson made the ruling she wanted following a private hearing in the family division of the high court in London shortly before she died.But speaking to the Telegraph, the girl’s father spoke of his sadness and blamed his former partner for stopping him seeing the child’s body before it was embalmed and frozen.The man, who is also suffering from cancer, said: “Last time I saw her was in 2007. The reason for this is purely her mother’s doing – she said ‘no way, full stop’. She has caused this sadness between me and my daughter and she died in the end without me being able to see her.”The girl’s solicitor, Zoe Fleetwood, said Jackson had ruled on a dispute between parents, not on people’s rights to have their remains frozen.Fleetwood, a partner at the Dawson Cornwell law firm, said the teenager had described Jackson as her hero after learning of his decision days before she died.Jackson had said nothing about the case could be reported while the teenager was alive after she said media coverage would distress her. He said he had been moved by the “valiant way” in which she had faced her “predicament” and ruled no one involved could be identified, again in line with the girl’s wishes.The teenager, who had been too ill to attend the court hearing, had been represented by lawyers and had written to the judge explaining she wanted a chance to “live longer”.Jackson, who had also visited her in hospital, said the girl’s application was the only one of its kind to have come before a court in England and Wales – and probably anywhere else – and was an example of new questions science posed to lawyers.Fleetwood told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme on Friday: “By 6 October, the girl knew that her wishes were going to be followed. That gave her great comfort. She had those last few days knowing that her wish was granted.”Donald Trump has settled fraud lawsuits relating to Trump University for $25m, removing a legal headache despite having pledged to fight the cases to the bitter end.Lawyers for the president-elect settled the three lawsuits on Friday, averting the prospect of him testifying in a courtroom showdown which threatened to reveal more troubling details about the now defunct real estate course.New York’s attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, claimed vindication and victory for those “swindled” by the course.“Donald Trump fought us every step of the way, filing baseless charges and fruitless appeals and refusing to settle for even modest amounts of compensation for the victims of his phony university,” Schneiderman said in a statement. “Today, that all changes. Today’s $25m settlement agreement is a stunning reversal by Donald Trump and a major victory for the over 6,000 victims of his fraudulent university.”Every victim will receive restitution and the president-elect will pay up to $1m in penalties to the state of New York for violating state education laws, Schneiderman said. “The victims of Trump University have waited years for today’s result and I am pleased that their patience – and persistence – will be rewarded by this $25m settlement.”Trump’s attorney did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Under the deal the president-elect will reportedly not admit to any wrongdoing.Former students who filed the suit said they were lured by false promises to pay up to $35,000 to learn Trump’s real estate investing “secrets” from his “hand-picked” instructors.The casino owner-turned-Republican candidate denied the allegations and said he relied on others to manage the business.Trump’s lawyers negotiated the settlement with Schneiderman, in New York, and law firms that brought two separate class action lawsuits regarding Trump University in California.Of the $25m some $21m will help reimburse those involved in the California suits. Some $3m will go to those in New York not covered by the California lawsuits.Trump catapulted the case into the election this summer by assailing Judge Gonzalo Curiel, the federal district court judge hearing the case. Trump called him a “hater”, a “total disgrace” and “biased”. “He is not doing the right thing … [He] happens to be, we believe, Mexican,” he told a rally in San Diego.For a White House hopeful to attack a federal judge in such a way was unprecedented. And inaccurate. Curiel has Mexican heritage but is a US citizen born in Indiana.GOP primary opponents, and later Hillary Clinton, used the lawsuits to bash Trump as a huckster.Stung, he vowed in tweets, speeches and interviews to not settle. “I don’t settle lawsuits,” he told a rally in Arkansas. “Probably should have settled it, but I just can’t do that. Mentally I can’t do it. I’d rather spend a lot more money and fight it.”However, his unexpected election victory put pressure on the president-elect, who is busy forming a cabinet, to end the distraction before his inauguration in January – and before the possible emergence of further damaging revelations.The opening of 400 pages of the Trump University “playbook” to public scrutiny in June shone a light on the ruthless business practices the real estate mogul used to build his business empire.Employees were told to get people to pile on credit card debt and to target their financial weaknesses in an attempt to sell them the high-priced real estate courses, especially the $34,995 Gold Elite three-day package.The documents contained an undated “personal message” from Trump to new enrollees at the school: “Only doers get rich. I know that in these three packed days, you will learn everything to make a million dollars within the next 12 months.”Staff were told to spend lunch breaks in sign-up seminars “planting seeds” in potential students’ minds about how their lives would not improve unless they joined the program. Staff were also told to ask them personal questions to discover weaknesses that could be exploited to help seal the deal.Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said the settlement appeared to be a substantial victory for the plaintiffs. “Especially because Trump suggested that he never settled cases and derided others who did settle them.”The looming move to the White House ratcheted up pressure, Tobias said. “It was not inevitable, but it would have been very difficult to create a new government and conduct this litigation, particularly if Trump had to testify. Merely postponing it until he was president would not have helped much as the job will consume him.”In an unrelated case, Trump’s lawyers on Wednesday dropped a lawsuit he was pursuing in Florida about commercial air traffic over his Mar-a-Lago estate.When Ireland voted for marriage equality it would be fair to say that many people across the world were a little surprised. I know in Ireland we see ourselves as a modern dynamic and innovative country which is at the forefront of the world’s digital and pharmaceutical industries, but across the world most people still think of Ireland as a deeply religious Catholic country, a land of churches and tradition. Indeed, it is still hard to find a Hollywood film where the priest does not have an Irish accent.The truth, as is usually the case in life, is that a little bit of both images are true. Ireland is a religious country and has the second highest regular church attendance in Europe after Poland. It has found a way to marry dynamism and tradition.So how could this country of deep faith so enthusiastically vote for marriage equality for lesbian and gay people and become the first country in the world to do so? The truth is we supported marriage equality not in spite of, but because of the values our faith raised each of us in.The same is true in Australia. Poll after poll shows the majority of Australian people of faith are in favour of marriage equality. The old argument of gay versus God is bogus. It is not a choice of picking one or the other and the members of churches see that.Most of our faiths are built on the foundation stones of respect, human dignity, the sanctity of the person and social justice. These values do not contradict same-sex marriage, rather they lead us to supporting it. Across Ireland and Australia many of the leading advocates for marriage equality are people of faith. Australia is undoubtedly more religiously diverse than Ireland but since I came here I have been struck by the amazing voices from every faith who are making the case for marriage equality through the prism of their faith.Sadly, most of the time the loudest voices we hear from the hierarchy of our churches is one that is out of step with their flocks. It is a cold, strident and marginalising message about our lesbian and gay friends, family and neighbours that has done so much damage over the centuries. It is a tone that contradicts the values of love, compassion and dignity that most religious people adhere to in Australia today.All too often we generalise about people including people of faith. We make the presumption that if someone is religious they must be against equality for lesbian and gay people. Nothing could be further from the truth. As lesbian and gay people we know all too well what it is like when people make negative generalisations about us. We must show real leadership in ensuring we do not do the same to others.The remarkable journey towards equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in Australia must not become a journey based on the defeat of religion but rather a journey that builds bridges between people of faith and LGBTI people. It must be a journey that allows people of faith to ask their genuine questions so they might become supporters and advocates of equality. A journey based on conversation, persuasion and the values we hold dear, not angry debates.A journey we can and should all take together.Cryonic freezing companies should be banned from marketing the technique to vulnerable people, according to a leading neuroscientist who said they were being sold a false hope that freezing their bodies would allow them to be brought back to life in the future.Clive Coen, a professor of neuroscience at King’s College London, said the high court decision which allowed a dying 14-year-old girl to have her body cryogenically frozen could have the “unintended consequence … that a lot of people are going to think this is worth a punt”.“Ethically it’s very complicated. The trade-off is that she got the comfort, but others may now be duped,” he added.Coen said it would be a “sensible step” for the UK to consider following the example of the Canadian state of British Columbia which bans funeral homes from marketing cryonics – thought to be the only place with anti-cryonics laws in North America. “At the moment that seems a very sensible strategy,” he said.He added: “There is no evidence outside amphibia and tissue slices that any of this works [...] We’re not at a point where regulation is appropriate. The whole body is just ridiculous and the whole brain is only slightly less ridiculous.”The British philosopher Mary Warnock said people considering cryogenic freezing had to be better informed, although she did not support a ban or other legislation. “People are being ruthlessly exploited by these companies who are guilty of exploiting those who are vulnerable because of distress – that is the real ethical dilemma,” she said.The cosmologist and astrophysicist Prof Martin Rees said the promises made by cryonics enthusiasts were “ridiculous and not to be taken seriously”. He said: “In my view it is most unlikely that this is feasible and even if it is, it should be discouraged.“From an ethical point of view if people are going to be frozen and revived, even if they could survive they would be imposing a great obligation on future generations, and any revived person would be a nuisance or a misfit.”But leading transhumanists – an international movement that aims to transform the human condition through technology – argue that any regulation of the fledgling industry at this stage could hamper developments. Anders Sandberg, research fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, said cryonics was a controversial area better known in science fiction than in real life.“People who want to be cryopreserved are like refugees from the present, fleeing to the future because they can’t survive here,” he said. “There is a good chance they won’t make it, their chances are slim – but it beats the alternative.”He said cryonics companies did not promise potential users that they would be restored in full health in the future. “They say, we’ll do our best and here is our theory, but you are still confronted with mortality,” he said.But, he argued, if people could be reanimated in the future after being frozen, medical advances were likely to mean that physical, if not emotional, complications could be fixed. “In the middle ages people thought that if you weren’t breathing, you were dead, now we know how to give CPR. In the future just because your heart is not beating may not necessarily mean that you are gone.”Currently cryonics is unregulated and not subject to any laws in the UK. It does not fall under the remit of the Human Tissue Authority (HTA), which regulates the removal, storage and use of human tissue, because it was “not contemplated” when the Human Tissue Act was passed in 2004, the authority advised the court.The HTA confirmed it was not seeking further regulation, but was looking at the current situation and working with others to evaluate where there may be risks to the public, or to public confidence.Cryonics UK, the non-profit organisation that prepared the girl’s body for transport to the US cryogenic storage facility, said it would welcome regulation. “We expect that future regulation will help hospitals to know where they stand legally and procedurally. The opportunity to utilise professional medical assistance may increase as we become a recognised and better regulated field,” the organisation said in a statement.But the legal ramifications of successful cryonics could be complex and far-reaching said Prof Nils Hoppe, an ethicist and leading academic in the field of life sciences law. “As long as it never works then we don’t have to talk about regulation, but in 10 years’ time if it has progressed to the stage where it might be possible then there are serious ethical, legal and societal questions to answer,” he said. “If death is reversible then the body is no longer an item of property to be disposed of, [the dead person] suddenly becomes an agent again.”That possibility raised a plethora of legal and ethical complications including who would have access to expensive technology and whether people would choose to be frozen as soon as they became ill, as well as throwing inheritance laws into disarray. But he cautioned against imposing restrictive regulations or laws. “Strong laws can hinder innovation which we do need in this area,” Hoppe said.He added: “It would be a fantastic thing if it works – but while fascinating, it could be massively problematic.”Prisons, whether we like them or not, are an essential public service that have never been a priority when it comes to government spending. But when there is a long-term squeeze on funding from successive governments who have had no idea about the role prison officers and associated staff perform, there are seriously detrimental effects.That is why it was absolutely essential this week that prison officers made their concerns known in the most public possible way, by taking protest action to highlight their concerns, laying bare the prison service’s darkest secrets for all to see. The court injunction to end the strike is another sad indictment of the conditions prison officers have to operate within. We have no formal way to pursue our grievances, no way of getting our concerns listened to, and a system that is designed to hide the facts and conceal the truth of the consistent failings in prisons.It has been a failure of many governments not to invest appropriately in prisons. Attracting, recruiting and retaining the very best talent to work with prisoners in order to turn their lives around should be at the forefront of all considerations. The political merry-go-round of successive justice secretaries looking to make a name for themselves has either quickly made them, or in some instances quickly broken them.So it is unfortunate that the most recent appointee to the role, Liz Truss, has taken over the helm at a critical stage in the ongoing failure of the prison system, with murder, violence, self-harm, suicide, riots and even escapees a regular occurrence. It is no wonder the public have demanded answers about how such failures have been allowed to happen.Truss’s predecessors failed to bring about positive reform and predominantly preoccupied themselves with reducing the cost of a broken system, rather than taking the time to stop and listen to the core problems from experienced staff. This has left Truss the unenviable task of mending a system that’s in a state of disarray and deterioration. As she quite rightly says, there are no quick fixes.A justice minister, however, has a sizeable number of interested parties who will seek to influence direction in the prison estate. For various reasons this can be unhelpful if the messages conflict with one another and do not create a clear picture. That is why it is essential that the running of the prison system is left to the experts in the field: the staff.Many organisations have strong views on the number of prisoners that are locked up, the care they receive, the education and support needed to turn a prisoner’s life around. But the core role of security, discipline, control and order should never be interfered with by an outsider. Those on the outside may not always agree with how these services are delivered, but for prison officers to achieve them they must be supported in their methods and not demonised.In recent years, savage budget cuts mean that over 30% of frontline staffing has been removed, and the net effect of this is a loss of control. The Prison Officers’ Association is a responsible trade union, and we have patiently tried to work with the government and our employers to bring about change that not only benefits our members but also improves the lives of prisoners and the general public alike, fostering safer, more viable institutions under increasingly impossible constraints.Whatever your view of prisons and how prisoners should be treated, recent news stories have shown that none of what you expect to be happening inside is currently achievable. The system will need much more than the promised £100m a year to recruit and retain staff while bringing security, discipline, control and order back to prisons.Health campaigners have accused the Scotch Whisky Association of arrogance after it launched a fresh legal challenge over plans for minimum alcohol pricing in Scotland.To the dismay of medical experts and ministers in Edinburgh, the SWA said it would appeal to the UK supreme court against a Scottish court ruling last month that plans for a 50p minimum price for alcohol were compatible with EU law.Alcohol charities said the SWA, which represents global drinks giants such as Diageo and Pernod Ricard alongside smaller family distillers, was borrowing tactics from tobacco companies, putting their commercial interests above public health.“Twenty-two Scots are dying because of alcohol every single week,” said Alison Douglas, chief executive of Alcohol Focus Scotland. “In taking legal action, SWA members like Diageo and Pernod Ricard continue to put their shareholders’ profits above the public interest. When it comes to the nation’s health, we cannot allow the alcohol industry to call the shots.“It is totally disingenuous of the SWA to say they are committed to tackling alcohol harm when they consistently block the single most effective measure to achieve that. They are borrowing from the tactics of the tobacco companies in delaying this live-saving measure.”The Scottish health secretary, Shona Robison, said she was deeply saddened by the SWA’s decision to appeal again against another ruling by Scottish judges. She urged the association to drop its legal action.“I think the SWA may want to consider that minimum unit pricing was passed with the overwhelming support of the parliament, has been tested in Europe, and has now been approved twice in the Scottish courts,” she said.“We remain committed to ongoing dialogue with the alcohol industry. Should the SWA drop their appeal, and accept that the time has now come to implement this measure that will save lives, they could expect very strong support from across Scotland.”A 50p minimum unit price would push the cost of a standard bottle of whisky up to £14. The data analyst Nielsen said earlier this week its research showed 69% of spirits in Scotland would be affected, and 67% of beers. Measured by brand, 76% of Scotland’s most popular spirits would have to increase prices, Nielsen said, with blended scotch prices rising by 20% overall.The fresh appeal is likely to delay a final ruling well into 2017. The SWA’s legal battle began four years ago and its case has now twice gone through the Scottish courts, with the drinks industry losing each time.Backed by European drinks associations and nine EU member states including France, it insists that imposing a fixed starting price for all drinks is a breach of EU competition and free trade rules. The SWA argues a blanket approach penalises responsible drinkers unjustifiably, when ordinary taxation could be used to target cheaper types of drink.The European court of justice (ECJ) ruled last December that this was a clear issue but it referred the case back to the Scottish courts to assess whether that breach of EU competition rules was justified on health grounds. The ECJ added it had to be shown to be more proportionate and effective than using general taxation.The Treasury already taxes certain alcohol drinks more heavily than others, targeting some on health grounds. However Scottish ministers have no control over drinks taxation but are responsible for health policy, limiting their options.Last month, Lord Carloway, Scotland’s most senior judge, said minimum pricing was justified as there was a link between alcohol-related deaths and cheap alcohol. “The fact that the legislation would affect moderate drinkers in some way does not detract from the legitimacy of the aim as a measure designed for the general protection of public health and life,” he said.Julie Hesketh-Laird, the SWA’s acting chief executive, would not explain in detail the legal basis for the further appeal, but said: “This is not a decision we have taken lightly. [But] given our strong view that minimum pricing is incompatible with EU law and likely to be ineffective, we now hope that our appeal can be heard quickly in the UK supreme court.“Having studied the ruling, we believe the Scottish court has not properly reviewed the legislation’s compatibility with EU law as required by the European court’s judgment.”The Sheffield Alcohol Research Group at the University of Sheffield argues that minimum unit pricing has been consistently effective and well-targeted when used abroad. It believes a 50p minimum unit price would result in 60 fewer deaths in Scotland, 1,300 fewer hospital admissions and 3,500 fewer crimes due to alcohol within the first year.The right to make decisions about our bodies, provided we don’t harm others, is sacred. That right was today upheld by a High Court judge in approving a 14-year-old London girl’s dying wish to have her body frozen. She did so in the hope one day of coming back to life. This hope clearly gave comfort to a dying person.Cryonics is, to many of us, absurd. But the right to employ it is not. Wanting to be buried in a fridge rather than in a grave is hardly a big deal. Rising from the dead is one of the oldest human cravings. It is central tenet of Christian faith, whether resurrection is to take place in heaven, hell, a churchyard or the second coming.. Science fiction writers imagine bodies being suspended in time to enable space travel.The science of low-temperature physics is in its infancy. Cryonicists believe blood can be drained, stored and replaced with antifreeze-like chemicals to prevent crystallisation and the rest of the body preserved intact. Stem cells can be isolated and stabilised. Body parts can be replicated. As a field of research, some of this may yield advances in the understanding of cells and body chemistry. Some may indeed help in preserving simple body parts. But the idea that the infinity of brain cells could be locked down and then resuscitated as a human being remains fanciful. If we wish to live for ever, we must have children.The world is full of wacky science. In America, the home of hope, over 100 bodies are believed to lie in iced storage, in what their former owners believe is suspended animation. Good luck to them, and to the scientists who charged them £65,000 each.None of this matters at law. Today’s case is about something different, the rights of individuals and families. The girl, a minor, and her mother wanted cryonics. Her father, who is separated from her mother, did not. He changed his mind on condition he could see his daughter on her death. Her mother and her refused. What right does a teenage girl’s father have?The answer, in this case, was none. The decision was about the rights of all of us, including in this case a mother and her child, to “own” our bodies. The wider implications extend to the right to die and be helped to die, as to abortion, drug use, cancer cures, alternative medicine and, more controversially, our custodianship of our children. A young girl’s wish to pay for the freezing and storage of her body may be eccentric. That is no reason for refusing it.The recently announced withdrawal from the international criminal court (ICC) by Burundi, Gambia and South Africa, following earlier threats from some other African countries, has created the impression that Africa is hostile to the court. Let me emphasise, however, that the people of Africa, and particularly the victims of war crimes and crimes against humanity, and members of those communities affected by genocide, stand by the ICC. Most of the continent’s democratic governments stand by the ICC. I stand by the ICC, because the most heinous crimes must not go unpunished.As the African who opened the conference in Rome in 1998 that led to the creation of the court, I was proud that my continent was its most enthusiastic supporter. Memories of the horrors of the Rwandan genocide were still fresh in our minds. In fact, the first signatory of the treaty was an African country: Senegal. Africa remains the single largest regional bloc, with 34 states party to the Rome statute out of 124.We also made the most use of the institution from the outset: of the nine investigations on the African continent, eight were requested by African states, six African states referred their own situation to the ICC, and African states voted in support of the UN security council referrals on Darfur and Libya. Kenya was the only case in Africa opened independently by the court, but it enjoyed the enthusiastic support of a majority of Kenyans. They wanted justice for the 1,300 people killed and hundreds of thousands displaced in election-related violence.The ICC got involved in these African cases because national authorities did not conduct investigations into the massive crimes that had occurred. The ICC does not supplant national jurisdictions, it only intervenes in cases where the country concerned is either unable or unwilling to try its own citizens. Africans deserve justice as much as anyone else, even if their governments cannot always provide it.Some retort that the African court on justice and human rights should play that role on the continent. Its protocol was adopted two years ago, but it remains largely unratified. For the time being, the ICC remains the continent’s most credible court of last resort for the most serious crimes.To those who think that Africa is the sole subject of international justice, we should remind them that international criminal tribunals were first set up after the second world war, at Nuremberg and Tokyo. After the cold war, more international or mixed tribunals were set up for crimes in Lebanon, Cambodia and Yugoslavia.Nor will international justice stop in Africa. The ICC’s chief prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda, an accomplished African lawyer, has opened investigations in Georgia and is conducting preliminary examinations in Afghanistan, Colombia, Ukraine, Iraq and Palestine.Finally, we need to recognise that the mere existence of the ICC can serve as a deterrent for leaders tempted by violence to shore up their regimes. Be that as it may, we should never forget that justice is its own virtue.All this is not to say that the ICC is beyond reproach. Most egregiously, the fact that only two of the five permanent members of the United Nations security council – the UK and France – are signatories to the Rome statute (and therefore members of the court), opens the court up to accusations of double standards. It is clearly unacceptable that states with special and historical responsibility for world peace and security should undermine the court’s legitimacy in this way. Those who claim the mantle of global leadership should lead by example. Moreover, the quality of the court’s investigations, its lengthy judicial process and its ability to protect witnesses have been called into question.These shortcomings must be addressed, but they are reasons to support the ICC’s efforts to rectify them, not to quit the court, one of the most significant achievements of international society since the end of the cold war.As I have said before, Africa wants this court. Africa needs this court. Africa should continue to support this court. This is why I call on Africa’s democratic governments to take a principled stand this week at the Assembly of States Parties meeting in The Hague to shore up the ICC, a historic milestone on humanity’s journey towards international justice.The apparent African exodus from the international criminal court must be stopped or the most heinous crimes will be allowed to go unpunished, Kofi Annan, the former UN secretary general and one of the ICC’s chief architects, has warned.Burundi, Gambia and South Africa said this year they would no longer recognise the court’s jurisdiction and announced their intention to quit. They claim the ICC disproportionately targets African leaders. Nine of the 10 cases taken by the court have involved former African rulers.Annan’s intervention is designed to influence the annual meeting of the Assembly of States Parties, whose members are signatories to the ICC. He warned the actions of the three African countries risked giving the false impression the entire continent was hostile to the court.Annan was pivotal to the court’s creation when he was UN secretary general, hosting the inaugural conference in Rome in 1998.Writing in the Guardian, he says: “Most of the continent’s democratic governments stand by the ICC. I stand by the ICC, because the most heinous crimes must not go unpunished.” He says Africa “was [the court’s] most enthusiastic supporter” at the ICC’s inception. “Memories of the horrors of the Rwandan genocide were still fresh in our minds. In fact, the first signatory of the treaty was an African country, Senegal. Africa remains the single largest regional bloc, with 34 states party to the Rome statute out of 124,” he writes.Annan said the focus of the ICC’s work in Africa did not indicate any bias but rather Africa’s willingness to refer cases to it. “Of the nine investigations on the African continent, eight were requested by African states. Six African states referred their own situation to the ICC, and African states voted in support of the UN security council referrals on Darfur and Libya,” he writes.“Kenya was the only case in Africa opened independently by the court, but it enjoyed the enthusiastic support of a majority of Kenyans. They wanted justice for the 1,300 people killed and hundreds of thousands displaced in election-related violence.”Annan said Africa was not the sole subject of international justice, pointing out that criminal tribunals were first set up after the second world war, at Nuremberg and Tokyo. After the cold war, more international or mixed tribunals were launched for crimes in Lebanon, Cambodia and Yugoslavia. The ICC has opened investigations in Georgia and is conducting preliminary examinations in Afghanistan, Columbia, Ukraine, Iraq and Palestine.He said the “ICC remains the continent’s most credible court of last resort for the most serious crimes … [It] does not supplant national jurisdictions; it only intervenes in cases where the country concerned is either unable or unwilling to try its own citizens.”A 14-year-old girl who said before dying of cancer that she wanted a chance to live longer has been allowed by the high court to have her body cryogenically frozen in the hope that she can be brought back to life at a later time.The court ruled that the teenager’s mother, who supported the girl’s wish to be cryogenically preserved, should be the only person allowed to make decisions about the disposal of her body. Her estranged father had initially opposed her wishes.During the last months of her life, the teenager, who had a rare form of cancer, used the internet to investigate cryonics. Known only as JS, she sent a letter to the court: “I have been asked to explain why I want this unusual thing done. I’m only 14 years old and I don’t want to die, but I know I am going to. I think being cryo‐preserved gives me a chance to be cured and woken up, even in hundreds of years’ time. “I don’t want to be buried underground. I want to live and live longer and I think that in the future they might find a cure for my cancer and wake me up. I want to have this chance. This is my wish.”Following the ruling, in a case described by the judge as exceptional, the body of JS has now been preserved and transported from where she lived in London to the US, where it has been frozen “in perpetuity” by a commercial company at a cost of £37,000.The girl’s parents are divorced. She had lived with her mother for most of her life and had had no face-to-face contact with her father since 2008. She resisted his attempts to get back in touch when he learnt of her illness in 2015.The judge, Mr Justice Peter Jackson, ruled that nothing about the case should be reported while she was alive because media coverage would distress her. She was too ill to attend the court hearing but the judge visited her in hospital.Jackson wrote: “I was moved by the valiant way in which she was facing her predicament. It is no surprise that this application is the only one of its kind to have come before the courts in this country, and probably anywhere else. It is an example of the new questions that science poses to the law, perhaps most of all to family law … No other parent has ever been put in [the] position [of JS’s father].”He added: “A dispute about a parent being able to see his child after death would be momentous enough on its own if the case did not also raise the issue of cryonic preservation.”Since the first preservation by freezing in the 1960s the process has been performed only a few hundred times. The body has to be prepared shortly after death, ideally within minutes. Arrangements then have to be made for the body to be transported by a registered funeral director.“The scientific theory underlying cryonics is speculative and controversial, and there is considerable debate about its ethical implications,” Jackson said. “On the other hand, cryopreservation, the preservation of cells and tissues by freezing, is now a well-known process in certain branches of medicine, for example the preservation of sperm and embryos as part of fertility treatment. Cryonics is cryopreservation taken to its extreme.” The judge said the girl’s family was not well off but that her mother’s parents had raised the money. A voluntary UK group of cryonics enthusiasts, who were not medically trained, had offered to help make arrangements. Co-operation of a hospital was required. “This situation gives rise to serious legal and ethical issues for the hospital trust,” the judge observed, “which has to act within the law and has duties to its other patients and to its staff.” The hospital trust in the case was willing to help although it stressed it was not endorsing cryonics. “On the contrary, all the professionals feel deep unease about it,” the judge said.The Human Tissue Authority (HTA), which regulates organisations which remove, store and use human tissue, had been consulted but said it had no remit to intervene in such a case.“The HTA would be likely to make representations that activities of the present kind should be brought within the regulatory framework if they showed signs of increasing,” Jackson said. The HTA said: “We are gathering information about cryopreservation to determine how widespread it is currently, or could become in the future, and any risks it may pose to the individual, or public confidence more broadly. We are in discussion with key stakeholders … and the possible need for regulatory oversight.”The government may need to intervene in future, Jackson said: “It may be … events in this case suggest the need for proper regulation of cryonic preservation in this country if it is to happen in future.”Inquiries made of American authorities revealed that there was no prohibition on human remains being shipped to the US for cryonic preservation, providing certain provisions were made.During the course of the 14-year-old’s case, the father changed his mind and told the court: “I respect the decisions [my daughter] is making. This is the last and only thing she has asked from me.”A child cannot make a will and the court had to decide where the girl’s best interests lay. The judge concluded that allowing the mother to make a decision about her daughter would be in her best interests. The girl died peacefully knowing that her body would be frozen, the judge recorded.The Department of Health said: “Cases such as this are rare. Although there are no current plans for legislative change in this area, this is an area we will continue to keep under review with the Human Tissue Authority.The decision of a teenage girl to have her body cryogenically frozen in the hope of being reanimated by medical advances in the future is one with which many could sympathise. But does current evidence suggest the gamble will pay off, or does cryonics simply give desperate people false hope dressed up in the language of science?There are two advances that make cryonics a little less far-fetched that it once was. The first is vitrification. As Arctic explorers and mountaineers have learned, humans are not designed to be frozen and defrosted. When our cells freeze, they fill with ice crystals, which break down cell walls as they expand, reducing our body to mush once it is warmed up again.Vitrification prevents this by replacing the blood with a mixture of antifreeze-like chemicals and an organ preservation solution. When cooled to below -90C, the fluid becomes a glass-like solid.The technique has substantially improved the reliability of freezing and thawing embryos, and particularly eggs, in fertility treatment and it works for small pieces of tissue and blood vessels. Earlier this year, scientists managed to cryogenically freeze the brain of a rabbit and recover it in an “excellent” state – although it is not clear if the brain’s functions would have been preserved as well as its superficial appearance. However, even vitrifying larger structures, such as human kidneys for transplantation, has never been done clinically and remains some way off.Barry Fuller, a professor in surgical science and low temperature medicine, at University College London, said: “There is ongoing research into these scientific challenges, and a potential future demonstration of the ability to cryopreserve human organs for transplantation would be a major first step into proving the concept, but at the moment we cannot achieve that.”This is the growing appreciation that our personality, skills and memories are to some extent defined by the connections between neurons. This has led some to speculate that rather than bringing the actual body back to life, the brain’s contents could be “downloaded” on to a computer, allowing the person to live as a robot in the future.This might have the whiff of nonsense, but Nick Bostrom, a professor of philosophy at the University of Oxford’s Future of Humanity Institute, and his colleague, Anders Sandberg, are both banking on this possibility. “As a head, my life would be limited, but by then we will be able to make real connections to computers,” Anders said in a 2013 interview. “So my hope is that, once revived, my memories and personality could be downloaded into a computer.”However, many neuroscientists have pointed out that even if you could code the astronomical number of connections between the brain’s 100bn neurons, even this would not capture the full complexity of the human mind.From a purely scientific perspective, your money is probably better spent while you are still alive.James Ward was convicted of arson in 2006. He was given an indeterminate sentence for public protection (IPP) for the protection of the public with a tariff – the minimum sentence he had to serve before he could be considered for parole – of 10 months. Back then, Charles Clarke was home secretary in a Labour government with a mission to be tough on crime. That was a decade ago. Soon afterwards sentencing became a matter for the new justice department. Liz Truss is currently its sixth secretary of state. James Ward is still in prison. David Blunkett, the Labour home secretary who introduced the IPP policy in 2005, long ago recognised that it was a mistake.Within months of the power coming into force it was clear that nervous courts were using it too often for fear of public shaming at the hands of the media. In 2008, another justice secretary, Jack Straw, introduced a “threshold of seriousness”, restricting IPPs to serious offences that carried a tariff of more than two years. But it was not retrospective: those already in prison stayed there. In 2012, Mr Straw’s successor, Kenneth Clarke – who had inherited 6,000 prisoners on IPPs, of whom nearly a third had already served more than their tariff – finally changed the law, but only after he had been widely vilified for calling them “absurd”. Once again, the change did not apply retrospectively.And that is why James Ward, a man with a low IQ and mental health problems, who has told the BBC that he feels trapped in a box, is still locked up. So are another 3,859 prisoners sentenced to an IPP, 3,200 of whom are beyond their tariff expiry date. Many have served more than five years above their original tariff. Undoubtedly, some remain a risk. But it is hard to say how many because, as Peter Clarke, the chief inspector of prisons says in his latest annual report, many are still denied access to the behaviour amendment courses they need to complete in order even to apply for parole. This, as a court has said, is “deplorable”. It’s a system that wrongs individuals while wasting scarce resources in a prison service so short of cash that many prisoners are locked up for 23 hours a day.On Thursday Michael Gove became the latest former justice secretary to recant. Delivering the Longford Trust lecture in memory of the great 20th-century prison reformer, he listed the things he might have done had he not embarked on a course of auto-defenestration after the referendum. Among them, he included releasing those 500 or so prisoners serving indeterminate sentences who have served more than the maximum sentence for the offence. Of course, it is a shame he did not consider executive clemency while he was in charge. But crime and punishment have been politically neuralgic ever since Michael Howard first claimed that prison works. That is why IPPs were first introduced, and that is why it is now so hard to get rid of them. It will need a consensus; Mr Gove’s defenders will argue that is what he was trying to build.Meanwhile this government, so determined to take back control, is visibly not in control of prisons like Guys Marsh in Dorset, where pictures of inmates apparently enjoying a party escaped from social media to the front of the Daily Mail. The government is at a fork in the road on prisons policy. It could take the expensive course of building more prisons and recruiting more officers. Or it could take up the Gove challenge of sending fewer to prison and giving them a more constructive prison experience. Releasing those who have already served far too long is one of those rare policy objectives: it is the right thing to do to save money. And it is the right thing to do for the sake of justice.Mauritius is threatening to take the UK to the international court of justice in a dispute over sovereignty of the Chagos Islands.In the wake of the Foreign Office’s announcement this week that none of the Chagossians expelled in the 1960s to make way for military bases would be allowed to return to live on the Indian Ocean archipelago, Mauritius, which claims the territory, has accused Britain of “outrageously” undermining human rights.The prime minister, Sir Anerood Jugnauth, criticised the UK government’s refusal to let the Chagossian community return to the island, which he said “always formed and continues to form an integral part of the territory of Mauritius”.He added: “In view of the purported unilateral actions of the UK, Mauritius would be fully justified in taking forward the completion of the process of decolonisation, which is now on the agenda of the current session of the UN general assembly, with a view to putting the matter before the international court of justice.”A United Nations vote in favour of referring the case to the court in The Hague would have to be obtained. The Mauritian government said the UK’s “unilateral” decision to ban the right of return and to renew the lease for the US base on Diego Garcia, one of the Chagos Islands, for another 20 years breached international law.Mauritius said the UK had “acted in blatant breach of the letter and spirit” of a judgment under the UN convention on the law of the sea last year.“The denial of the right of Mauritians in general, and those of Chagossian origin in particular, to settle in the Chagos archipelago is a manifest breach of international law and outrageously flouts their human rights,” the statement said.Mauritius argues that the Chagos Islands were illegally stolen from it before they were established as the British Indian Ocean Territory.The Foreign Office in London said: “We disagree with Mauritius’ claim that the Chagos archipelago, which the UK administers as the British Indian Ocean Territory, is part of Mauritius.“Whilst we do not recognise the Republic of Mauritius’ claim to sovereignty of the archipelago, the UK has repeatedly undertaken to cede it to Mauritius when no longer required for defence purposes, and we maintain that commitment. These defence purposes contribute significantly towards global security. Diego Garcia is a joint UK-US facility that is used by many international partners in countering terrorism and countering piracy.“The UK is disappointed that Mauritius is seeking a request by the UN general assembly to the international court of justice for an advisory opinion on sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory. The UK believes this is an inappropriate use of the ICJ mechanism and sets an unwelcome precedent for other bilateral disputes.”A British woman who reported being raped by two men is “petrified” after being told she faces jail in Dubai for extramarital sex.The 25-year-old tourist claimed she was attacked by two men while on holiday in the United Arab Emirates and reported the incident to police.But officers then charged the professional from Cheshire with extramarital sex and, despite being bailed, she is not allowed to leave the country. Her passport has been confiscated and UK-based UAE legal experts Detained in Dubai said she could face a prison sentence if found guilty.The family of the woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, have set up fundraising pages online to raise money to cover her legal costs. She is currently residing in a safe house.The woman’s father wrote online that his daughter had met the two men in her hotel who raped her. He claims the alleged attack was filmed. He added: “She is stranded, is not allowed to leave the country, and is alone scared, and in a dreadful situation, as you can imagine.”Shortly afterwards, two men were arrested at Dubai airport. They have been named as thai boxer David Butlin, 22, and footballer Louis Harris, 24. They have both been bailed and also remain in the country.Butlin and Harris, who are cousins and both live in the West Midlands, have appeared on the Instagram page of Towie’s James Argent. They were pictured at a Dubai beach club with the reality TV star. The men are understood to firmly deny the claims.A relative of Harris, who lives in Lichfield, Staffordshire, said it was a “difficult” time. She said: “All I’ll say is that he’s a really lovely boy. We can’t comment further but it’s a difficult time.”One neighbour – who wished to remain anonymous – said Butlin was often flying back and forth from Dubai, where the alleged rape took place. They said: “It’s always on Facebook when he goes there. It must cost a lot of money.”It is understood that the UK Foreign Office is providing assistance, including the alleged victim and two UK nationals, and working with the local authorities.In a post on a fundraising page, the woman’s father wrote: “She was befriended by two guys from Birmingham ... and went with them for a drink, in a hotel where they were staying, the guys concerned were travelling home in around 4/5 hours.”He added: “(NAME) was taken to the police station where the incident was reported, and the prosecutor is setting a date for her trial, which is a complicated scenario because of the laws of the country.”After reporting the alleged assault, the woman ended up in a prison cell. Her passport was confiscated and her family claim she now faces trial. Her relative returned to the UK and she was joined in the UAE by her mother. It is understood her mother has also now returned to the UK .Her father wrote: “(NAME) has been put in a safe house, but is stranded in the country for a period of between three and six months, or even longer, until a trial date is confirmed and the case is brought to court.”It is claimed that the woman has had to find a lawyer to represent her and legal costs will amount to £24,000.Nine days ago her father updated the fundraising page writing: “(NAME) mum is now on her way back to the UK, she has spent as much time as she possibly could helping to get things moving in the right direction.”Radha Stirling, founder and director of Detained in Dubai, said the woman could be stuck in Dubai for as long as six months even if she was found innocent.“There is a huge backlog in the system,” she said. “If she wins the first stage, the prosecution can appeal and they often do … So by the time she is found innocent, by the time she gets her passport returned, we can be talking at least six months.”Stirling said the UAE was not a safe place for women to report allegations of rape. “Sex outside marriage is a crime there and, therefore, if a rape allegation is made and can’t be proved to be rape then it’s almost automatic that the person is charged with voluntary sex outside marriage,” she said.Stirling said it was hard to predict what the woman’s sentence would be if she were found guilty of having extramarital sex. “They have no precedent system there so while one person can be given one year for the same allegations, another person might be given one month or six months or just a deportation or a fine.”She said similar cases in the past had resulted in seven-month prison sentences and that the best chance the family had to speed up the process would be to work to put diplomatic and media pressure on the UAE government.A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: “We are supporting a British woman in relation to this case and will remain in contact with her family.”In 2008 an Australian woman, Alicia Gali, was jailed for eight months in Fujairah for having an illicit sexual relationship after she reported being drugged and raped by three co-workers. In 2009, the South African national Roxanne Hillier was jailed for three months after it was alleged she spent time alone with her male employer, despite medical reports suggesting she had not had sex.The fundraising page has now raised more than £11,000.The government has announced a review of the use of rape complainants’ sexual history during court cases in the wake of concerns that the acquittal of footballer Ched Evans could deter women from reporting attacks.The retrial in which Evans was cleared last month of raping a 19-year-old woman prompted outrage from campaigners after a key part of the defence argument involved describing the complainant’s previous sexual history.This is permitted, under strict conditions, by section 41 of the Youth and Criminal Evidence Act 1999. Women’s support groups said its use in such a high-profile case could set a precedent and put off others from pursuing a complaint.News of the review came in a debate on crime and policing in the House of Lords on Wednesday, when the Liberal Democrat peer Jonathan Marks raised the Evans case. He argued that the case “raised fears that complainants will be deterred from reporting rape because they might be cross-examined about their sexual history”.In response, Susan Williams, a junior Home Office minister who also works with the Ministry of Justice, argued that the legislative bar put in place by section 41 was “high and decided by judges on a case-by-case basis”, meaning there should be no risk of it happening more often.But she added: “We are aware of the recent concern about the admissibility of a complainant’s previous sexual history, and wider perceptions about the law. We accept that the concern should be looked at and we intend to deal with it. We have committed to looking at how the law is working in practice and will do so as expeditiously as possible, to understand whether any further action needs to be taken.”Asked whether this meant the government was undertaking a review of the law, Lady Williams replied: “Yes.”The announcement was hailed as “exceptionally good news” by Jess Phillips, who was among more than 40 female Labour MPs who wrote to the attorney general in the wake of the Evans case warning about the possible consequences.In the letter to Jeremy Wright, the MPs said a move towards revisiting the sexual history of complainants in court would “act to make the prosecution of rape cases in the future harder and reporting of these crimes less likely”.“The verdict and events in this case set a dangerous precedent that how a victim of rape, usually a woman, has behaved in the past can be taken as evidence of the way she behaved at the time of the alleged rape,” they wrote.Phillips said that although Wright had indicated willingness to look into the matter, she and her fellow MPs had not been told before now that anything was happening.She said that although the Evans case did not create a strict precedent under law, she remained worried about the impression it left. “Because of the high-profile nature of the case and the way it happened, it sends a terrible, terrible message,” she said. “If we can even just amend the law slightly to toughen up the protections against this sort of case then that’s what we need to do.”The MP, who formerly worked with a charity helping victims of domestic sexual abuse, said: “A review of the law and how the law needs to work is very much needed. Lawyers might say no change is needed, but as someone who has spent a lot of time in courtrooms, my faith in the ability of this system to work for sexual violence victims is at a low ebb already. Any protection is a good thing.”Lord Marks, the Lib Dems’ legal spokesman, said the Evans case had “led to the perception that a victim’s sexual history can be combed through and used against them in court”, which could lead to fewer people coming forward to report rape.“We all have a responsibility to ensure that victims of rape are encouraged to come forward to enable justice to be done,” he said. “That is why we sought a review of how section 41 is working, to ensure that the section is as restrictive as we have long thought it is.”The law professor and barrister Norman Palmer, who has died of motor neurone disease aged 68, used his expertise in common law and what he called “legal ingenuity” to help foreign clients as diverse as the Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre and the government of Iran claim back important cultural objects and remains that had ended up on British soil.In 2007 the Islamic Republic of Iran was attempting to appeal aginst an unfavourable high court decision over the recovery of 18 bronze age bowls, jars and cups found in the possession of the Barakat Gallery in Mayfair, London. The exquisitely carved objects offered a window on to a hitherto little-known period in human history about 4,500 years ago, but had been illegally excavated in Iran after flooding in the Jiroft area a few years before and spirited out of the country without an export licence. Iran wanted them back, and its solicitors recruited Palmer to help with the case.The issue was not whether the Barakat Gallery was innocent in all of this: the gallery had bought the objects in Europe on the open market and claimed good title to them; the question was instead whether Iran had an enforceable legal claim to recover its artefacts once they had left its territory. Employing a series of creative property and tort-based arguments, and working alongside Sir Sydney Kentridge and others, Palmer was able to advance the claim that Iran maintained ownership of the artefacts through a 1979 cultural heritage law, despite never having come into possession of them. On this crucial point, the court of appeal decided in Iran’s favour. Following negotiations with the gallery, the objects were returned to their homeland.Palmer was more recently asked to provide a legal opinion for the Greek government with Geoffrey Robertson QC and Amal Clooney on the position of the Parthenon marbles in international and British law, a document that was delivered in the summer of 2015. “I didn’t quite see why it was worthy of all that press coverage,” he said wryly at the time.Like all good barristers, he would argue his client’s case in the most convincing of ways. However, he remained motivated by the search for an amicable resolution – not one fought out in court, but one resulting from the parties sitting round the table and seeing eye to eye. In his lectures, he often quoted a line associated with a 17th-century peace treaty: “One peace is worth countless victories.” The titles of some of his recent law journal publications – Waging and Engaging: Reflections on the Mediation of Art and Antiquity Claims; The Best We Can Do? Exploring a Collegiate Approach to Holocaust-related Claims – indicate that he took this saying to heart. He believed that a resolution was always possible, and one in which both sides could be satisfied.Nowhere was this more clear than when he worked for the Indigenous Australians of the Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre, who were looking to claim back the bones of their ancestors that had been taken by explorers and settlers and later donated to the Natural History Museum in London. Palmer advised the group to obtain court permission to bury the remains in Tasmania, then bring the court order to Britain, thus putting pressure on the museum to negotiate. The legal ingenuity worked. The parties entered a mediation that led to a successful settlement, whereby the remains were returned to Tasmania and met with a traditional ceremony of welcome by the group.Born in Grays, Essex, the son of Muriel (nee Walker) and Norman Palmer, he went to Palmer’s Endowed school, then won a scholarship to read law at Magdalen College, Oxford, eventually becoming professor of law at Reading, then Essex and Southampton universities, and from 1991 at University College London. In 1979 he wrote his landmark legal tome, Palmer on Bailment, seen by many in the legal profession as a work of peerless scholarship. Following his retirement from institutional academia in 2002, as professor of commercial law at UCL (he became emeritus professor after retirement), he decided to focus on his practice as a barrister, and the cultural heritage briefs started to flow in.Palmer chaired a number of government-appointed cultural heritage bodies, such as the advisory panel on illicit trade (2000-05), on which he succeeded in obtaining unanimity for the recommendation that the UK join the 1970 Unesco convention, which aims to curb the illicit trade in looted antiquities (the UK acceded to the convention in 2002). He sat on the UK’s spoliation advisory panel, which hears claims involving Holocaust-era art kept at British institutions, from its inception in 2000 until last year.He married Ruth Redmond-Cooper, his second wife, in 1994 and a year later they set up the Institute of Art and Law, an independent educational organisation.He is survived by Ruth and their daughter Lilian, his daughter, Victoria, from his first marriage to Judith Weeks, which ended in divorce, and three grandchildren.Environmental legal challenges face being hit by the “chilling effect” of new government rules that remove a cap on claimants’ costs, according to campaigners, lawyers and politicians.They warn that the changes could deter organisations and individuals challenging projects such as fracking wells, HS2 and the Heathrow third runway for fear of racking up huge court costs.The costs to complainants bringing environmental judicial reviews, which account for less than 1% of all judicial reviews, have been capped since 2013.Individuals and organisations who bring such cases currently pay no more than £5,000 and £10,000 respectively of defendants’ costs, in addition to their own costs. Under the Ministry of Justice’s plans published on Thursday, there will be no fixed cost, and the costs could go up or down, depending on the claimant’s finances.The government argues that the changes would still allow valid challenges and checks on public authorities, but deter ones without merit.But groups involved in supporting and bringing such judicial reviews warned the move would put off valid future cases.Jamie Beagent, a partner at law firm Leigh Day, said: “These proposals will create a climate of fear and uncertainty amongst those wishing to challenge projects imposed upon them and their environment.”Caroline Lucas, Green party MP, said: “We know that high and uncertain costs have a chilling effect on the ability of ordinary citizens and civil society to hold the government to account on these issues. In this context, these proposals represent a huge threat to environmental justice and we will fight them every step of the way.”One such environmental judicial review will be heard next week in the Royal Courts. Friends of the Earth and an anti-fracking group argue that North Yorkshire county council’s decision earlier this year to approve planning permission for a fracking site at Kirby Misperton is unlawful.The government’s defeat in the high court earlier this month over air quality, which could now see dirty diesel cars charged to enter cities across the country, began with an environmental judicial review. The MoJ said that there were 293 such cases between April 2013 and May 2015.The changes come at the same time as the green light has been given to a slew of big and environmentally controversial infrastructure projects, from an expanded Heathrow and HS2 to a trio of shale gas sites which are likely to be drilled next year.Campaigners fear the proposals could have a significant impact on everyone from individuals to residents groups and large environmental NGOs.Naima Siddiqi, director of regulatory affairs at Friends of the Earth, said: “This change in law would make it harder for anybody who wants to challenge controversial development like fracking or incinerators near their home. The government can fix all this by reversing their plans.”Gillian Lobo, a lawyer for ClientEarth which brought the air pollution case, called the changes regressive. “These new plans make it even harder for people to bring environmental cases, by increasing uncertainty around costs and making the procedure ever more complex,” she said.An MoJ spokesperson said: “We want a justice system that works for everyone. The cost of bringing environmental challenges must not be prohibitively expensive, especially to those with limited means.“Our proposals will also deter unmeritorious claims, which are expensive and delay vital infrastructure projects.”It’s 6.30am and still dark, and Jean is setting out for her job as a home care worker. When she returns in 12 hours’ time she will have made 23 house calls to sick and elderly people, driven 20 miles between appointments and earned £64.80 before tax.Jean isn’t her real name. Along with fellow care workers in this northern town she is on a zero-hours contract and fears losing work if her employer is unhappy with her. She fears that speaking out about how she has to race between visits, cutting short her appointments in order to earn the “national living wage”, might result in an immediate loss of earnings.Jean is one of an army of care workers who go into people’s homes every day to help with tasks that enable them to keep living independently. As the population ages it is a growing industry, and more than 600,000 people are now employed in the care sector. Those working on the frontline – often for agencies working on council contracts – do jobs such as preparing food, making beds, prompting people to take their medication and tidying up. These jobs are often advertised on minimal rates of pay, and typically they involve no guaranteed working hours.The agency, as she describes it, is a hard taskmaster. “I leave home at half six and I’ll probably get home at about seven and I’ll get about £270 a week,” she says. “The clients are all lovely and sometimes you go out of your way to do more for them, but it’s hard because there’s no time to get from one place to the next.”Jean works 12 days on and two days off. Her list of appointments comes through on a Friday but can change during the week as people are discharged from hospital and added to her client list, or admitted to hospital and removed. She may also be asked to cover a colleague’s visits if they are off.With a zero-hours contract, there is no minimum guarantee of work, and Jean’s days can shrink or grow. She cannot be sure from one day to the next how long she will work or how much she will earn. It can even change while she is on a shift: on the day that I trailed her she was expecting a six-hour shift in the morning but saw an appointment disappear from the roster on her phone while she was at another house. That meant she was instantly down £1.80 on the amount she expected to earn for the day. “Probably once a week you get a cancellation or they will ring you up and ask, ‘Can you do extra?,’” she says.Some agencies offer higher rates of pay than Jean is on, but the tendency to offer zero-hours contracts still causes problems for workers. One care worker on the London living wage of £9.40 an hour told the Guardian that her weekly pay fell by almost £70 after she lost seven hours’ work. The cuts to shifts come as patients die or are taken into hospital, and workers can wait weeks to be allocated new visits.In her role as a care worker Jean visits some homes three times a day, making breakfast, lunch and tea, and providing some of her clients with their only human contact all day. Her phone roster lists the jobs scheduled for the day and the length of each appointment. Typically there is a mix of 15-minute and 30-minute visits, although sometimes she is booked at a house for longer.Councils typically pay agencies for visiting time. When Jean arrives at a house she swipes her phone to say she has arrived, and she swipes again when she leaves. She is paid for the time that is shown on the roster, rather than how long she is actually providing care. The phone tracks her movements throughout the day.The roster allows no time for travel between appointments – and she is not paid for it. To stay with each client for the full appointment time and make it to the next one on time would require some kind of teleporter – in reality she has to cut every one of them short so that she can leave the house, sometimes put a key back into a safe, get back in her car and travel to the next address. As a result, sometimes appointments scheduled for 30 minutes actually last only 20 so she can stay on schedule. “I’m going to be running around like a headless chicken later,” she says, looking at the afternoon’s roster of short appointments.On the day I shadow Jean, she works nine hours over two shifts and takes home £7.20 an hour for that time – exactly the national living wage, but only because she cuts appointments short to travel between clients.She says it is a good day. The morning appointments are straightforward and with people she has visited before, so she knows where they live and how to find things in their homes.But it is not always like that. “If I have a new patient I have to read the care plan, so that takes longer,” she says. “And I’m often in a home for longer than is scheduled. If I have to call an ambulance for someone I have to wait for it to arrive and I don’t get paid for that time. If I go over by five, 10, 15 minutes on a call then I don’t get paid for that.”For Jean and other care workers, payment for transport expenses is erratic. She gets some money for petrol, she explains, but the amount varies and is never more than £10 a week. Business insurance cover for her car, along with wear and tear, all add to her costs. In London, one worker told the Guardian she received 56p to cover a week’s visits to a patient done by bus and on foot. A single fare costs £1.50.For Jean, there are larger concerns than transport costs. It is stressful work, she says, and she feels she has little support. One of the worst things, she says, is the isolation. “It’s a lonely job,” she says – while she may see her colleagues driving past to their calls, she rarely has a chance to speak to them. “You are in the car on your own, you get to people’s houses and often face problems on your own. They tell you all of their worries and then you take them home. Often at night I’m tossing and turning worrying about them.” But despite this she says: “I love my job – I’m completely attached to it.”The Prison Officers Association will resume talks with the justice secretary, Liz Truss, after the high court ordered it to end a 24-hour protest about rising violence in jails.The National Offender Management Service (Noms), part of the Ministry of Justice, contacted the POA to offer a meeting with Truss on Thursday.The 10,000-member union held protests outside prisons in England and Wales that were due to last throughout Tuesday, but officers were ordered back to work at 5pm by the court.Government lawyers accused the POA of trying to “impose their own limited regime” in jails across England and Wales against the wishes of the Prison Service, by taking action that amounted to a strike.The union had insisted that the 24-hour protest, which included a provision for emergency cover, was necessary to keep staff and inmates safe amid a surge in jail violence and a prison system in “meltdown”.It claimed victory after a “long and very difficult day” by securing the promise of a meeting with the justice secretary within 48 hours.Truss accused the union of walking away from talks and taking action without notice. The MoJ insisted that Truss only agreed to meet the POA after it agreed to end the protest. “The justice secretary already met with the POA earlier this month, but would not do so again until they called off their unlawful action,” an MoJ spokesman said.“Now that prison officers are back at work, she will meet the POA, and invites them to resume talks with her team.“We are committed to improving safety across the prison estate and are already taking action. This includes tackling the use of drugs, mobile phones and drones, while recruiting new staff and improving protection for staff.”Although emergency cover was provided during the protest, the POA action meant prisoners were kept in their cells, a situation described as dangerous by the chief executive of Noms, Michael Spurr. He said the protest amounted to a strike, which the POA is banned from taking by law.The action followed a string of high-profile incidents at prisons, including an alleged murder, a riot and the escape of two inmates.Two prisoners escaped from HMP Pentonville in north London earlier this month, but were eventually recaptured.Weeks earlier, Jamal Mahmoud, 21, died after being stabbed at the jail on 18 October in an attack that left two others injured. On 6 November, up to 200 prisoners rioted at HMP Bedford.Announcing the action, the union said the “continued surge in violence and unprecedented levels of suicide and acts of self-harm,” coupled with the recent alleged murder and escapes, “demonstrate that the service is in meltdown”.Up to 10,000 staff joined the protest and courts were disrupted as a result. There have been several warnings about prison safety after statistics revealed soaring levels of violence in jails in England and Wales, with assaults on staff up by 43% in the year to June.Earlier this month, Truss unveiled her blueprint for prison reform. Measures include recruiting 2,500 frontline officers and instituting “no-fly zones” to stop drones dropping drugs and other contraband into prisons.US senators have called for a travel ban and asset freeze for Chinese officials who abducted five Hong Kong booksellers in 2015, amid fears that Donald Trump will turn a blind eye to Chinese human rights abuses in a bid to improve relations with Beijing.Last year five book publishers based in Hong Kong were detained by Chinese authorities and held incommunicado for months, with two abducted from Thailand and Hong Kong.Legislation introduced by Senators Marco Rubio and Tom Cotton would require the US president to list those responsible for “the surveillance, abduction, detention, or forced confessions” of the book publishers, freeze any US-based assets and deny them entry to the US.“In recent years Beijing has consistently undermined the ‘one country, two systems’ principle and infringed on the democratic freedoms of the residents of Hong Kong,” Rubio said in a statement.“It is critical in the days ahead that the democratic aspirations of the people of Hong Kong be a vital US interest and foreign policy priority.”The bill would also require the US secretary of state to issue a yearly report on Hong Kong. However the current legislative session is almost over, making it unlikely the bill will be passed.When the UK handed the territory to China, Hong Kong was allowed under the “one country, two systems” framework to keep freedoms not available on the mainland.Rubio introduced the legislation after meeting with democracy activist Joshua Wong, who led 79 days of street protests against the Chinese government in 2014. The 20-year-old chairman of a Hong Kong political party spoke at an event organised by the US congressional-executive commission on China.Wong said: “Being a businessman I hope Donald Trump could know the dynamics in Hong Kong and know that to maintain the business sector benefits in Hong Kong, it’s necessary to fully support human rights in Hong Kong to maintain the judicial independence and the rule of law.”He added the international community had a moral responsibility to Hong Kong.Human rights activists in China and the US fear Trump will cast aside the interests of pro-democracy activists and human rights campaigners in a bid to seal what some think could be a historic rapprochement with Beijing.Rubio also slammed a ruling by Hong Kong’s high court to ban two elected lawmakers from taking office after they staged a protest during a swearing-in ceremony.“China’s assault on democratic institutions and human rights is of central importance to the people of Hong Kong and to its status as a free market, economic powerhouse and hub for international trade and investment,” Rubio said.The UK justice secretary, Liz Truss, has come under severe pressure from her predecessor, Michael Gove, and the chief inspector of prisons to take urgent action to cut the prison population.Gove said her power of “executive clemency” should be used to release 500 prisoners serving imprisonment for public protection (IPP) sentences who have already served more than the usual maximum sentences for their offences.Peter Clarke, the chief inspector of prisons, in a report on the 3,859 IPP prisoners currently held said Truss needed to take decisive action to reduce the numbers of those still in prison years after the end of their tariff.Gove’s backing for action on IPP prisoners was made in the 2016 Longford lecture as part of a U-turn on his refusal in office to cut the record 86,000 prison population, which he now says should be reduced over time and pragmatically.“It is an inconvenient truth – which I swerved to an extent while in office – that we send too many people to prison. And of those who deserve to be in custody, many, but certainly not all, are sent there for too long,” he said.In particular, the former justice secretary said he had been wrong to fear that reducing the prison population would automatically lead – at least in the short term – to a surge in crime. He pointed to the reduction in the imprisonment of the number of young offenders as being matched by a fall in youth crime as evidence.Gove’s lecture also contained an oblique attack on the government’s deep cuts to legal aid and a plea to rescue the criminal bar, where many judges train, from professional extinction.The report by the chief inspector of prisons published on Thursday backed Gove’s demand for urgent action on IPP prisoners. Clarke said it was now widely accepted that implementation of the sentence was flawed and had contributed to the large numbers who remain in prison often many years after the minimum period laid by their trial judge.“The justice secretary needs to act quickly to ensure the consequences of mistakes made in the past do not continue to resonate for many years to come,” he said. In office, Gove asked the parole board, which takes the release decision on each individual IPP case, to look again at whether they could increase their release rate. A Ministry of Justice spokesman said the chief inspector’s report rightly highlighted concerns around the management of IPP prisoners. “That is why we have set up a new unit within the ministry of justice to tackle the backlog and are working with the parole board to improve the efficiency of the process.”On legal affairs, Gove said the criminal bar was being squeezed to the margins. He said work was being siphoned off to solicitor advocates and by the development of an entirely new class of “plea-only” solicitor advocates who do not profess to have all the skills and competences of a qualified barrister. They were also being squeezed by legal aid payments, which is not just being cut but structured in such a way as to facilitate solicitors’ firms keeping business in-house.“I fear that, together, alongside some of the changes made to the operation of legal aid, these developments have not worked in the broader public interest,” he said.“There is a case for saying that the defendant in all crown court cases and the more serious magistrates court cases should be represented by a barrister … I also think there is a case for a higher quality filter being applied before people can read for the Bar in the first place and would like to see the Inns of Court play a significant part in establishing a higher quality threshold,” he said.Medhanie Yehdego Mered, AKA ‘The General’, is believed to be the kingpin of a criminal organisation of people smugglers responsible for illegally transporting thousands of people from the Middle East and Africa to EuropeOur report that a well-qualified academic once earned so little on his casual contract that he had to supplement it with a job as a refuse collector is confirmation that precarious work has metastasised from unskilled or elementary-level jobs to reach parts of the economy once considered the epitome of security. According to analysis of the official figures by the University and College Union, more than half of academics in Britain’s universities, where students are paying £9,000 a year in fees, are employed on temporary or insecure contracts. They are recruits to a burgeoning class of workers, many of them described as self-employed, that make up the “just about managing”. Ranging from agency workers in warehouses and care assistants to the top-grade professions, these are the people who Theresa May has pledged to put at the heart of her response to the Brexit revolt.As the prime minister acknowledged again in her Guildhall speech on Monday, getting it right for people on middle to low incomes is a precondition of the defence of liberalism. The shape of Britain’s workforce has been transformed in the past decade. What was once genuinely welcomed by employers and employees as flexible employment now looks much more like exploitation, made all too easy by an under-regulated jobs market. Nearly a quarter of the 32 million people in work fit this description of precarious employment; the biggest group among them are the self-employed, a definition that once suggested the budding entrepreneur or the local builder but now might also mean the Uber driver who picks you up at 2am on a Sunday morning. This is the kind of work that is undermining 100 years of confidence that children will do better than their parents, the belief that underpins social democracy.As today’s state of the nation report on social mobility shows, people who start out in these low-paid jobs – where young workers have experienced a 15% fall in hourly rates since 2008 – struggle to escape them. Funding is scarce for “second chance” education for older workers looking to improve skills or learn new ones; further education colleges that might provide post-16 education to students who don’t go to university are losing out to apprenticeship schemes.The chancellor, Philip Hammond, is under pressure from No 10 to introduce measures in next week’s autumn statement to tackle this exploitation. He wants to raise income tax thresholds, a costly move that helps higher earners more than those at the bottom. Instead, he should abandon universal credit cuts and resist calls to slow the increase in the rate of the “national living wage”. He should slash fees for employment tribunals, which have led to a two-thirds reduction in the number of cases. And, after our report on employment agencies, he should make sure that HMRC really is making the people behind tax avoidance schemes feel its inspectors’ hot breath on their necks. He might start work on simplifying tax law too.In fact, a major overhaul of employment law is overdue. It is no longer fit for purpose. Ministers must recognise the impact of the transformation in the way people work, and the laws designed for a world when most people had permanent jobs don’t work properly. Matthew Taylor, who has been asked to review workers’ rights, is likely to want to look at this area when he starts his investigative roadshow round the country. But here is a short list of small changes backed by the TUC that might start to restore workers’ protection.At the moment, there are three categories of employment – people on permanent contracts, people on zero-hours or agency contracts, and the self-employed. Only the first category is entitled to full employment protection including redundancy payments, unfair dismissal and parental leave. If casual workers had stronger rights, then the claim that zero-hours contracts are perfect for parents with caring responsibilities could be turned from a fiction – where the choice can lie all with the employer – to fact, and pregnant women could get paid leave for antenatal appointments. If, in addition, the so-called self-employed were assumed to be employed unless the employer, rather than the employee, could prove they weren’t, then workers would be protected from the kind of forced self-employment that Uber drivers are complaining about. Mrs May is right to identify the problem. Tackling this shopping list of rights would go to the heart of the disadvantage that contributed to the millions of protest votes on 23 June.Being a barrister has its uses, Philippe Sands tells me. It means you can rustle up a speech seconds after learning that you’ve just won the UK’s top award for non-fiction. It also means you already have enough money, so can give the £30,000 prize to refugee charities, which is what Sands announced in a speech that brought the house down at Tuesday’s award ceremony.Sands – an affable, clever, driven 55-year-old – is in splendidly combative mood when I meet him the morning after he took the Baillie Gifford prize (as the Samuel Johnson prize is now named). In his speech, he compared Lviv, the much-contested Ukrainian city at the centre of his book East West Street, with his home city of London. In what way, I ask, can the two possibly be bracketed together?“Lviv was once a cosmopolitan, multi-ethnic, multi-religious, multi-everything city with fabulous universities, fabulous arts, an array of newspapers,” he says. “It was a mirror a century ago for our world in London today. One of the things I took away from the whole experience [of visiting and writing about the city] is take nothing for granted. They would have gone through their lives as I go through my life, imagining there are difficulties and tensions – but not that the whole thing could be swept away.”Sands – professor of law at University College London; a founder partner of Matrix Chambers; excoriator of Tony Blair over the deceptions in the run-up to the Iraq war; and of Donald Rumsfeld for the legitimisation of torture during the “war on terror” – worries that we are on the same nationalistic trajectory that fed Nazism, led to the second world war, and turned Lviv into a “mono-city, essentially Ukrainian”.He believes the election of Donald Trump and the growth of the nationalist right in Europe marks a dangerous moment. “I object deeply to the characterisation by Boris Johnson of Trump as a decent, liberal guy from New York. Boris Johnson would basically welcome the election of Adolf Hitler on that standard, and you can imagine the words, ‘We can work with him’, ‘He’s going to be good for Britain’.” Sands says we should not “cosy up” to Trump “until we have a very clear sense that our essential values are going to be fine. We don’t yet have that clarity.” We don’t even have it, he argues, from Theresa May’s government. “The events of a week ago with that headline in the Mail, ‘Enemies of the People’, was as dark a day as I can remember in this country. And the failure of the lord chancellor and the prime minister to say that goes beyond what was acceptable. It started alarm bells ringing.” Sands has always combined the practice of law – international law in his case – with an engagement in public events. Their inseparability hit him early, as a student at Cambridge and Harvard. “Law is politics, politics is law,” he says. “The law is there but there’s always wiggle room, and the way you apply the law will be informed by the baggage you bring to the courtroom. It’s not a mechanical application. The wiggle room might be very limited, but there will always be some, and the individual steps into that space.”He juggles academic work, practising at the bar, and writing – first specialist legal texts, then the more polemical Lawless World and Torture Team, about the Iraq war and its aftermath. But East West Street is a dramatic departure, weaving together his search to discover what happened to his own family during the second world war with the struggle to lay a basis for international law at the trials of prominent Nazis at Nuremberg in 1945-46. The canvas is large, the cast of characters wide-ranging, and Sands’s pursuit of the truth about his own family relentless. There was one secret he was desperate to unlock: why his grandfather Leon Buchholz, who was born in Lviv but lived in Vienna, fled the Nazis in 1939, leaving behind his wife and one-year-old child. That child, Ruth, who is Sands’s mother, joined her father in Paris six months later. She was carried from Vienna in the arms of a stranger whose identity Sands was determined to discover.Sands’s search for the truth about these events forms the emotional heart of the book, but he combines this personal tale with a piece of intellectual history: the battle at Nuremberg between two rival concepts of international justice – that of “crimes against humanity” and “genocide”, each articulated by two well-established lawyers with links to Lviv, Hersch Lauterpacht and Raphael Lemkin.The former wanted to establish that the Nazis were guilty of crimes against humanity: the killing of vast numbers of individuals. The latter sought to arraign them for genocide: the deliberate attempt to destroy a racial or religious group. Their arguments have echoed across the 70 years since as a system of international law has gradually, falteringly been developed.The marriage of the public and the personal, he says, made the book difficult to write. At one point he proposed separating the two strands, but his agent argued against. “She said this is the first book that melds the two. It’s not just a Holocaust family horror story and it’s not just the Nuremberg trials story, both of which have been done.”Writing the book put Sands much more in touch with his Jewishness. It has given him a greater sense of stability: he now understands where his mother’s family came from and has unlocked secrets never revealed by his grandparents. But the intellectual conundrum presented by the book has disquieted him.He draws my attention to the final paragraph. He even reads it out to me. It describes a visit to a clearing near Lviv where 3,500 Jews – including one of his grandfather’s uncles and an uncle of the Nuremberg lawyer Lauterpacht – had been murdered and buried in a mass grave. “Right there, for a brief moment, I understood,” he writes.What he means is that he understood that this was a genocide, that Lemkin’s argument is hard to counter. “The issue at the heart of the book is the relationship between the individual and the group, between crimes against humanity and genocide. It’s a question we all ask. Am I an individual? Do I want to be understood and recognised as an individual? Or am I a member of a group?”Previously, he knew where he stood. “Intellectually, I am with Lauterpacht. I want to be treated as Philippe Sands individual, not Philippe Sands Brit, Londoner or Jew. But then I’m told about this mass grave in Żółkiew, where Lauterpacht is from, where my great-grandmother is from. I visit it and realise Lemkin had something – that we are defined by the community, the group, the tribe, of which we are a member.”Sands dislikes the nationalism he knows can spring from those bonds of group identity, but he also recognises their power. “I know it to be dangerous, which is why I resist it. The book is about identity. It’s about who we are and how the law should unfurl its protective embrace. Do you want to be protected because of who you are as an individual, or because you happen to be a member of a group that is hated at a particular moment and needs protection? That’s a big question to which there is no simple answer.”Chagos islanders who were expelled in the 1960s to make way for military bases will not be allowed to return to their Indian Ocean homes, the British Foreign Office has announced, citing the UK’s interest in its “defence relationship” with the US.Confirmation of the ban on resettlement follows decades of unsuccessful legal challenges in the UK against removal by members of the Chagossian community who have been resettled in Britain.Responding on Wednesday to the Foreign Office decision, the community threatened fresh legal action to rectify what it branded a “shameful decision”.Tom Guha, the chair of the UK Chagos Support Association, said: “We are profoundly saddened by the fact that the government have today squandered a perfect opportunity to right this historical wrong. This is a shameful decision and will be remembered as such in the history books. The government will continue to pay the price – not only in ongoing litigation fees – but in a deepened moral deficit.”Announcing the long-awaited decision, the Foreign Office minister Baroness Joyce Anelay said there would be a £40m support package over the next decade to help exiled islanders improve their lives. “The government has decided against resettlement of the Chagossian people to the British Indian Ocean Territory on the grounds of feasibility, defence and security interests, and cost to the British taxpayer,” she told parliament.The difficulties in re-establishing “a small remote community on low-lying islands” and developing modern public services for them were too great, she explained. There would be “limited healthcare and education” and a lack of jobs and economic opportunities. Anelay added: “The government has also considered the interaction of any potential community with the US Naval Support Facility – a vital part of our defence relationship.“The manner in which the Chagossian community was removed from the territory in the 1960s and 1970s, and the way they were treated, was wrong and we look back with deep regret.”Despite the community’s “emotional ties to BIOT [British Indian Ocean Territory] and their desire to go back to their former way of life”, the government would instead seek to support the communities where they now live.As many as 1,500 Chagossians, mainly descendants of those forcibly removed more than half a century ago, had claimed the right to return. In the UK, most Chagossians live near Crawley in Sussex; other refugees have settled in Mauritius and the Seychelles, nearer to their Indian Ocean home.Reacting to the decision on Wednesday, David Snoxell, who was deputy commissioner for BIOT in the 1990s, said: “A small-scale resettlement could have been tried and 15 years of deception, litigation, wasted public funds and damage to the UK’s human rights reputation avoided. Judges at all levels have deplored the treatment of the Chagossian population since 2000. “I cannot recall any other issue, at least in the 35 years that I was in the diplomatic service, which has so let down the FCO, undermined our ethical standards, been so carelessly and unsympathetically handled and caused so much unnecessary anguish than this one. I still feel ashamed at the way the FCO has treated and tricked a people whom we had a sacred duty to protect.”The Foreign Office is to expand its series of “heritage visits” for native Chagossians, allowing them to return for brief trips so that they can retain links to the atolls. The last visit took place in 2014. FCO officials will meet Chagossians in the UK, Mauritius and the Seychelles in the coming days to discuss arrangements for further visits.The US is to be granted a further 20-year lease to use the military base on the largest island, Diego Garcia, when it comes up for renewal at the end of this year.Referring to the lease, Lady Anelay said: “The agreements underpinning the UK/US defence facility will roll over automatically on 31 December if neither side breaks silence. “In an increasingly dangerous world, the defence facility is used by us and our allies to combat some of the most difficult problems of the 21st century including terrorism, international criminality, instability and piracy. I can today confirm that the UK continues to welcome the US presence, and that the agreements will continue as they stand until 30 December 2036.”Human rights groups have claimed that the Diego Garcia base was used for rendition flights involving jihadi suspects, including during the transfer of the Libyan dissident Abdul Hakim-Belhaj to Tripoli in 2004. The Foreign Office denied that he was ever held on the island. An FCO spokesperson said: “With the exception of the two previously reported flights that transited through Diego Garcia in 2002, since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States has not held or transited any detainees through the territorial land, air or seas of the United Kingdom or its territories.”Responding to the government’s decision, the UK Chagos Support Association said: “The consideration of such a proposal was unprecedented. It followed a consultation with Chagossians which displayed 98% support for resettlement and a government-commissioned feasibility study which deemed resettlement practically feasible.“Chagossians were forced from their Indian Ocean homeland as part of a UK-US agreement to build a military base on the Chagos Islands in the early 1970s. As that agreement expires this year, Chagossians and their supporters have called for any extension to be conditional on support for Chagossian return.”The Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, a long-term supporter of allowing the Chagossians to return, said: “This government has today failed to deliver the justice owed to the Chagossians, wholly innocent of anything, abominably treated and brutally removed from their homes.“Today’s decision should be seen as nothing less than a fundamental denial of a basic human right. There remains no legal basis for preventing the Chagossians’ return.”The broadcaster Ben Fogle, the association’s patron, said: “It’s another heartbreaking day for the Chagossian community, who have repeatedly been betrayed and abused by their own government. That even now, with so many reasons to support their return, the government have failed to do the right thing makes this a dark day in our country’s history.”The poet Benjamin Zephaniah, also a patron, said: “Once again, the people of the Chagos Islands are met with injustice. Sadly today’s decision is just another familiar scenario in a long and tragic episode of British foreign policy.”The Independent Police Complaints Commission is asking the high court to quash its own report clearing police officers of any serious wrongdoing following the death of a man shortly after he was Tasered.Jordan Begley, 23, a factory worker from Gorton, Manchester, died in July 2013 two hours after being shot at his home with a 50,000-volt stun gun from a distance of 70cm (28in). He was also punched and restrained by armed officers, who believed he had a knife.In the first case of its kind, lawyers for the IPCC told two judges sitting in London that the report on the investigation into Begley’s death was legally flawed and there should be “a new and lawful” investigation.The 2014 report under challenge concluded that no officers should be prosecuted or face misconduct proceedings. The officers involved are opposing the IPCC request to have the report overturned.Jeremy Johnson QC, appearing for both the IPCC and its chief executive, said there had been “a serious departure” from statutory requirements, and the investigator who prepared the report had not applied the correct legal test and had not accurately summarised the evidence, or attached or referred to all relevant documents from the investigation.The QC told Lord Justice Elias and Mr Justice Males that a new investigation was the appropriate way of vindicating the right of Dorothy Begley, the mother of the dead man, to a proper inquiry under article 2 of the European convention on human rights.An inquest jury delivered a narrative verdict in July 2015, saying Begley had been “inappropriately and unreasonably” Tasered and restrained. The jury found officers were “more concerned with their own welfare” than Begley’s.Ms Begley, who attended the high court hearing on Wednesday, said: “It has been more than three years and I am still fighting for someone to say sorry for destroying my family and taking my son’s life.“I will fight on no matter how long it takes. I will never give up.”Johnson said the 2014 report had inadequately dealt with evidence on whether the five officers involved should face misconduct proceedings. The report did not summarise contradictory statements from the officers on the position of Begley’s hands before he was Tasered. The issue was potentially important to the question of whether the officers’ use of force was justified because of fears that Begley had a knife when they were called to his home, said Johnson. One officer had said Begley’s hands were in his pockets while another said they were clenched in fists. The report also did not summarise evidence that one of the officers had said he delivered two “distraction strikes” to Begley and that this “knocked the wind” out of him while efforts were continuing to subdue him. This was also relevant to the question of whether excessive force had been used.Johnson argued that these failures in the report meant Greater Manchester police and the IPCC commissioner did not have a sufficient summary of the evidence to make the decisions they were required to make.Hugh Davies QC, appearing for the officers, argued that no compelling basis had been demonstrated for a reinvestigation.He said: “No credible witness has established a case of misconduct against the officers during what was a violent and threatening event.” There was no dispute over the level of threat posed by Begley, and that was why his mother had called the police.“On any view of the evidence, Jordan Begley represented a serious threat to members of the public outside and may have been armed with a knife,” said the QC. “Police are trained to treat somebody suspected of having a knife as having one until the contrary is demonstrated.”Davies said a further investigation would be unfair because of the delay involved. Four of the officers had already been placed on restricted duties, on and off, for more than three years at an important stage of their careers.Reserving judgment, Elias said the court would take time to consider its decision.I have a doctorate from a great university; I’ve worked on government research projects, and have more published work than many tenured staff. I have been hourly-paid for about five years now, but HR departments have been alert enough to knock me out of the system before I could rack up four years and become semi-permanent.I’ve been working for three places at once for most of those years. You have three HR systems and three intranets and three security systems, each with their glitches and perversities.The negotiation of all that stuff – just getting paid is far from automatic – stacks up to something like a management role. But of course this is without the security or the reward or pay being put in automatically. It’s often like trying to play Tetris very fast, and then you look at what you’re doing all this for and it’s three hours one week, seven another, none the next week.I earn just over £6,000 a year. My pay always just reduces my benefits, which is now universal credit. It’s hard to get by. Then friends and sometimes even students say things like: “Ah, it’s all right for you being a university lecturer …”We are seasonal labourers, like fruit pickers. You have to email every September, cap in hand, saying: ‘Is there any work for me this year?’ Universities are giving their hourly-paid people less hours, therefore paying them less.I do struggle to get by. I live in a housing co-op. On a day-to-day basis it means getting big bags of pulses and rice from Asian supermarkets, as cheaply as possible, making a whole batch of something and living off it. I cycle everywhere. It’s absolutely no frills. I’ve got a partner. We would like a family, but it would be extremely difficult. And the idea of getting a mortgage is a non-starter.The reason I am willing to be named here is because there is little left at stake, not much left to lose; the idea that if I be nice and polite about the situation and don’t say anything I might progress is clearly not true.I obtained my PhD in 2013 from a Russell Group university. Since then I have worked in three different universities, have taught on seven different modules, and have been module leader for five of these modules.I love working in [higher education] but, having had a succession of casualised contracts as an hourly-paid lecturer, am finding it increasingly unsustainable for both financial and personal reasons.I am not making enough money to make rent, particularly in the summer, and have to freelance as an editor and proofreader, which eats into time I really should be using to develop my own research and publications. I am unable to make long-term plans because I don’t know where – or if – I’ll have work next year.At the moment I face long commutes and/or sleeping on friends’ spare beds, sofas, floors or beanbags the night before I teach. There’s no point in moving closer to work because I might be working at the other end of the country in six months.Buying a house is out of the question. I have moved back in with my parents in order to save even my meagre rent. The best time was when I was teaching two courses a semester and doing MA supervision – I was earning £6,000-8,000 a year. Sometimes it’s as low as £2,000-3,000.Casualised contracts do not always pay you for office hours or sufficiently pay you for teaching preparation. You are rarely paid for the hours of emailing and advising students outside the days you are working. It becomes a difficult juggling act between supporting your students and paying yourself.On a personal level, I’ve experienced serious mental health issues and, while I have worked very hard at getting to a point where I can function, unstable work without a network of colleagues and without any security is proving really difficult.Three years of temporary contracts have meant that my life has been on hold. My friends outside academia are settling down, buying houses and getting married. Meanwhile, I have a PhD, a book that’s too expensive for anyone other than a university library to buy and face constant uncertainty.I’m worried that casualised academic labour means that the only ones who get permanent academic jobs are those able to tough out several years of fraught, unstable work – and I worry that the people able to do that are those with considerable financial privileges, without caring responsibilities, without financial dependents and those mentally resilient enough to cope.”Sam is a pseudonym.“I got my PhD in 1997 in English literary theory. I worked for about six years at various universities on a series of temporary contracts. I then had my daughter and was made redundant from the last of those contracts.I was at home for five years with my daughter, then I returned to work as a lecturer at Staffordshire University on a series of temporary contracts including full-time and part-time; my underlying permanent contract remains hourly-paid.My life is OK because my husband earns a decent wage but I certainly could not support myself on what I earn. Plus there’s the issue of insecurity – the fact that your hours can be cut. My hours have been cut. I have been on occasion quite depressed by the situation.I was only doing five or so hours a week last year. This semester I’m only teaching two hours a week. The hourly-paid lecturing rate includes payment for half an hour preparation and half an hour marking for each hour of face-to-face teaching. If I was preparing a course I have not taught before I would often spend a day preparing for a lecture and a seminar or a workshop.I earn such a pathetic amount. It’s ignominious. I feel quite humiliated – the remuneration and the status of the job is much lower than it is for full-time equivalent colleagues. There’s a lack of career progression, a lack of status and not much money.I’m in a sense lucky. I’m not on my uppers. I can work for little money, but for other people who need to support a family, I can’t imagine how they manage. Everybody is scrabbling around trying to find work.My husband is a professor of philosophy. He is the one with the proper job. It’s not unusual, but it’s not very good on the feminist front.”Russia has said it is formally withdrawing its signature from the founding statute of the international criminal court, a day after the court published a report classifying the Russian annexation of Crimea as an occupation.The repudiation of the tribunal, though symbolic, is a fresh blow to efforts to establish a global legal order for pursuing genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity.In recent months, three African countries who were all full members of the ICC – South Africa, Burundi and Gambia – have signalled their intention to pull out, following complaints that ICC prosecutions focused excessively on the African continent.The Russian foreign ministry made the announcement on Wednesday on the orders of the president, Vladimir Putin, saying the tribunal had failed to live up to hopes of the international community and denouncing its work as “one-sided and inefficient”.Russia signed the Rome statute in 2000 and cooperated with the court, but had not ratified the treaty and thus remained outside the ICC’s jurisdiction. This means that the latest move, though highly symbolic, will not change much in practice.“This is a symbolic gesture of rejection, and says a lot about Russia’s attitude towards international justice and institutions,” said Tanya Lokshina of Human Rights Watch (HRW). “On a practical level it will not make much difference, but it is a statement of direction: it shows that Russia no longer has any intention of ratifying the treaty in future or of cooperating with the court.”In January, the Russian foreign ministry said it would reconsider its attitude to the court after rulings on the 2008 war between Russia and Georgia.At the time, the foreign ministry spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, said: “Russia stood at the origins of the ICC’s founding, voted for its establishment and has always cooperated with the agency. Russia hoped that the ICC will become an important factor in consolidating the rule of law and stability in international relations.“Unfortunately, to our mind, this did not happen. In this regard, and in the light of the latest decision, the Russian federation will be forced to fundamentally review its attitude towards the ICC.”On Tuesday, the court, which is based in The Hague, published a report that recognised the annexation of Crimea as a military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and classified it as an occupation. “According to information received, the situation in the Crimea and Sevastopol is equivalent to the international armed conflict between Ukraine and the Russian federation,” a preliminary report from the ICC prosecutor Fatou Bensouda stated.“The Russian federation employed members of its armed forces to gain control over parts of the territory of Ukraine without the consent of the government of Ukraine.” Russia has insisted that Crimea voluntarily joined Russia after a referendum, but international observers say the referendum was hastily organised, did not meet international standards, and was conducted as Russian troops swept through the peninsula. Having initially denied vehemently that Russian troops were involved in the takeover, Putin later admitted it.Russia may also be concerned about ICC jurisdiction in Syria, where its forces have been repeatedly accused of carrying out war crimes in recent months. HRW and other organisations have called for the ICC to investigate events in Syria.The ICC has struggled to obtain widespread international acceptance. The US, India and China as well as most Middle Eastern states have declined to ratify the Rome statute which established the court. About 120 countries, mainly smaller states, have ratified the treaty. The UK is a member of the ICC. The resurgence of nationalist politics, apparent in Brexit and Donald Trump’s presidential election victory, suggests the tide may be turning against international legal institutions.A spokesperson for the ICC said on Wednesday: “Membership of the Rome Statute is a voluntary and sovereign decision which is the prerogative of all States. Russia signed the Rome Statute in 2000 but did not ratify it and is not a State party. The ICC is respectful of each States’ sovereignty.“The support of the international community is necessary for the ICC to fulfil its independent and impartial mandate to help end impunity for the perpetrators of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, provide justice to the victims of such crimes and contribute to the prevention of future atrocities.” Speaking on Wednesday at the annual assembly in The Hague of states parties signed up to the Rome Statute, Fatou Bensouda, the court’s chief prosecutor, said she deplored recent withdrawals from the Rome Statute. “Any act that may undermine the global movement towards greater accountability for atrocity crimes and a ruled-based international order in this new century is surely – when objectively viewed – regrettable,” she said.The ICC’s president, Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi, who is an Argentinian, said: “The court has continued to do the work for which it was created and has made significant achievements in addressing crimes of concern to the international community as a whole such as the use of child soldiers, sexual violence in conflict, attacks on civilians and the destruction of cultural property.International criminal justice, she added, is “a long-term project” and should remain a top priority “in order to bring perpetrators of crimes to justice and protect victims across the world equally”.Mark Ellis, director of the International Bar Association, said:“Russia’s decision to ‘withdraw’ its signature from the Rome Statute will have little or no impact on the court. Contrary to the government’s statement, Russia has never engaged with the court in any meaningful way and, in fact, has violated the prohibited crimes provisions of the Statute through its military actions in both Georgia and Ukraine. The more serious threat to the [ICC] is the withdrawal of African countries. Unless this alarming tide can be reversed, the court’s own legitimacy will be in peril.”A supreme court judge has raised the prospect that Theresa May would have to comprehensively replace existing EU legislation before the government could even begin Brexit, in a move that could seriously delay the process.In a speech that angered leave campaigners, Lady Hale said the supreme court judges could go further than simply forcing May to publish a short piece of legislation to approve the triggering of article 50.The deputy president of the court said that next month’s case – in which the supreme court will hear the government’s appeal against a high court ruling that MPs must approve the triggering of article 50 – raised “difficult and delicate issues” about the relationship between government and parliament.“Another question is whether it would be enough for a simple act of parliament to authorise the government to give notice, or whether it would have to be a comprehensive replacement of the 1972 act,” she said in comments to law students in Kuala Lumpur that were published online on Tuesday. The European Communities Act 1972 took the UK into the then European Economic Community.Hale set out the arguments on both sides of what is expected to be the most constitutionally significant case ever heard by the supreme court. She told the students that while the referendum had produced a majority of 51.9% in favour of leaving the EU, “that referendum was not legally binding on parliament”.She put forward the argument that the government was likely to make, saying it would suggest: “The basis on which the referendum was undertaken was that the government would give effect to the result. Beginning the process would not change the law.”The comments come amid reports that the government has prepared a short three-line bill aimed at helping May stick to her March deadline for triggering article 50 if the supreme court ruled that was necessary. Ministers are said to have drawn up short legislation that would be difficult to amend.Hale is one of 11 judges due to hear the case at the supreme court, which comes after the high court ruling immediately triggered a backlash from some politicians and rightwing media. The Daily Mail described the judges as “enemies of the people”.The former work and pensions secretary Iain Duncan Smith said Hale had pro-EU views and warned that it was not the job of judges to tell parliament what to do. Duncan Smith said: “This is a very big step. If they were to do this it’s a constitutional crisis. What the judges will decide on at the supreme court is whether or not the government can use its executive powers to trigger article 50.“It is not their job to tell parliament … how they should go about that business, that’s for parliament to decide.”He said “the individual concerned” had always opposed Britain leaving the EU, and said that he did not believe that would be a majority view in the supreme court.The Conservative MP Dominic Raab said: “If judges dip their toes in political waters by making speeches outside the courtroom, they are asking to get splashed back.”Raab did not question whether the comments suggested which way Hale would sway but argued that she simply should not have made any public comments. “I’m all for democratic debate. But you can’t have it both ways. If such a senior judge muses in public about a pending supreme court judgment, the judiciary can hardly scream blue murder if politicians, the media or public respond,” he said.After the outcry over the high court ruling, the prime minister was told to calm the “mob”, with the former attorney general Dominic Grieve saying the coverage “started to make one think that one was living in Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe”.Other Brexit supporters also lashed out at Hale’s lecture. Sir Bill Cash, a Tory MP and chairman of the European scrutiny committee, said: “I am astounded that a justice of the supreme court would venture into this territory before hearing the evidence of the case. It appears completely contrary to the proper relationship between the courts and parliament for her to suggest what parliament should do.”A supreme court spokesman said that Hale was simply presenting the arguments from both sides of the article 50 appeal in an impartial way for an audience of law students as part of a wider lecture on constitutional law, and it was proper for judges to set out arguments in high-profile cases to help public understanding of the issues involved in an even-handed way.“One of the questions raised in these proceedings is what form of legislation would be necessary for parliament to be able to lawfully trigger article 50, if the government loses its appeal,” the spokesman said. “A number of politicians have raised the same question. Though it was not dealt with explicitly in the high court judgment, it is not a new issue. In no way was Lady Hale offering a view on what the likely outcome might be.”• This article was amended on 18 November 2016. An earlier version said incorrectly that 51.9% of the British electorate had voted to leave the EU.People from black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds are more likely to be jailed for some crimes than those who are white, according to a government-commissioned report.While black people are known to be almost four times more likely to be in prison than white people, the study, headed by the Labour MP David Lammy, reveals racial disparities at many stages of arrest, charging, prosecution and imprisonment. Lammy, the MP for Tottenham in north London, said: “These emerging findings raise difficult questions about whether ethnic minority communities are getting a fair deal in our justice system. We need to fully understand why, for example, ethnic minority defendants are more likely to receive prison sentences than white defendants. These are complex issues, and I will dig deeper in the coming months to establish whether bias is a factor.”For example, the report found that young black males are 10.5 times more likely than young white males to be arrested for robbery. In general, black men were more than three times more likely to be arrested than white men.The comparative figures raise concerns about equal treatment by police and the courts as well as challenging whether differential outcomes are due to causes outside the control of the justice system.The interim report notes that “black individuals account for about 3% of the total population of England and Wales yet make up about 9% of defendants prosecuted for indictable offences” at crown court.Lammy’s full report, due next year, was commissioned by David Cameron to investigate evidence of possible prejudice against black defendants and other ethnic minorities in a justice system repeatedly lauded by mainstream politicians as one of the most impartial in the world.The investigation was given a political boost by Theresa May, who pledged to fight injustice and acknowledged, as she entered Downing Street in July: “If you’re black, you’re treated more harshly by the criminal justice system than if you’re white.”The inquiry, supported by the justice secretary, Liz Truss, is to be expanded to include a review of ethnic diversity among judges across tribunals, civil and family courts. It has already begun considering judicial ethnic diversity in crown courts.Disproportional outcomes were particularly noticeable in certain categories of offences. For every 100 white women handed custodial sentences at crown courts for drug offences, the report found, 227 black women were sentenced to custody. For black men, the figure is 141 for every 100 white men.Among all those found guilty at crown court in 2014, 112 black men were sentenced to custody for every 100 white men. Men from black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) backgrounds were more than 16% more likely than white men to be remanded in custody, the study’s statistical analysis revealed. Of those convicted at magistrates courts for sexual offences, 208 black men and 193 Asian men received prison sentences for every 100 white men.One of the most frequent explanations for differential outcomes is that distrust of the justice system encourages ethnic minority defendants to opt for jury trial rather than pleading guilty at magistrates court, where they might receive a lower sentence.The report confirmed that BAME defendants are more likely than their white counterparts to be tried at crown court: for every 100 young white defendants opting to have a jury trial, 156 young black men choose to do the same. The report also found 152 BAME men pleaded not guilty at crown court for every 100 white men.Another of the inquiry’s panel members is Shaun Bailey, a Conservative London assembly member. Asked whether he thought there is bias in the justice system, he said: “The institutional figures would suggest that … If you had gone to the black community in the past they would have given this feeling. But these reports are backed up by statistics.“Because they have less trust in the system, black people think they should trust the public [ie the jury]. It shows they still have trust in the British public. [Outcomes in] the rest of the system would suggest there’s bias.” By opting for a jury trial, Bailey said, black people were trying to redress perceived prejudice.“One of the things [the UK is] known for around the world is the impartiality of our judiciary. But people have correctly said a small part of it is not impartial.” Bailey welcomed the fact that the government was tackling the issue and noted that the justice system had “not shied away” from the inquiry. “People have been entirely happy to help.” Asked for examples of prejudice, Bailey said: “There are things that are right up with there with Stephen Lawrence.” He declined, however, to give details. David Isaac, the chair of the Equality and Human Rights Commission, who also sits on the panel, said: “I’m worried. It confirms some of the observations that our own research produced.“Black people are more likely to be the victims of crime yet are treated more harshly in the criminal justice system. This confirms that trend does not just exist but it is more acute than we realised. I don’t think this is overt racism but it’s hard to break down the individual components that produce these statistics.”Among the report’s other findings were that BAME males are almost five times more likely to be housed in high-security jails for public order offences than white men. Despite a fall in youth detention, 41% of youth prisoners are from ethnic minority backgrounds, compared with 25% 10 years ago.About 51% of the UK-born BAME population agree that “the criminal justice system discriminates against particular groups”, compared with 35% of the UK-born white population. The disparities were not all one way. Young BAME females and adults were less likely to be charged by the Crown Prosecution Service than comparable white groups. BAME men were about 10% less likely to be convicted at crown court than the comparative white group. Asian women were about 20% less likely to be convicted at crown court than white women.The report, Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic Disproportionality in the Criminal Justice System in England and Wales, said: “For some offences, such as robbery, arrest rates were significantly higher for certain BAME groups, but analyses of court processes generally did not suggest that disproportionality emerged for these groups” at later stages in the justice system.It added: “One overarching hypothesis worth investigating may be that established principles of oversight, guidance and collective decision-making reduce the effects of any unconscious racial bias that play out in areas of the system where decision-makers exercise a higher degree of individual discretion.”Welcoming the interim report, Truss said: “I am grateful to David Lammy for his work in this very important area. I welcome his commitment to studying these emerging findings in greater detail, and look forward to his full recommendations next year.“Part of building a fair justice system that works for everyone is drawing on the best talents from every background in Britain. That’s why I have announced a range of measures to make it easier for talented people to become senior judges based purely on merit, and why I have asked David to broaden his review to cover judicial ethnic diversity across tribunals, civil and family courts.”People suffering a mental health crisis should never be held in police cells as they find it terrifying and become even more unwell, ministers will be told.Peers will move an amendment to the policing and crime bill on Wednesday to ensure that adults who are feeling suicidal, are psychotic or are self-harming are never taken to police stations for assessment. It already plans to do that for under-18s.The number of people to whom that happens has fallen sharply in recent years and the number taken instead to hospitals has risen as a result, after widespread concern about the practice.“When you’re in a mental health crisis you may become frustrated, frightened and extremely distressed. Your behaviour could be perceived as aggressive and threatening to others, but you desperately need support and compassion,” said Paul Harmer, the chief executive of the mental health charity Mind, which is leading the calls to end the practice.“Being held in a police cell and [in effect] treated like a criminal only makes things worse. Now is the moment to ban this damaging practice once and for all.”Figures show there were 2,100 instances of adults being detained under section 136 of the Mental Health Act in police cells in England and Wales during 2015-16, and it also happened with 43 children and young people aged under 18.West Yorkshire police detained people 269 times in a police cell under section 136 during 2015-16, while Avon and Somerset did it 242 times, and South Wales 192. Officers usually take someone in crisis to a cell only when there is no “place of safety” available in a local NHS hospital.Yet, the 2,100 figure was 53% fewer than the 4,537 to whom that happened the year before. Numbers fell dramatically during Theresa May’s time as home secretary from 2010. For example, in 2011-12 a total of 9,000 people were taken to police cells after being detained.Similarly, the number of under-18s taken to a police cell had fallen from 256 in 2013-14 to 43 last year.Joan Walmsley, a Liberal Democrat peer, will use the Lords debate on Wednesday to try to push through the change.Insp Wayne Goodwin, Kent constabulary’s mental health liaison officer, said: “Kent police believe the use of police cells for those detained under the Mental Health Act should be a never event. Cells are not appropriate places for anyone detained under the act and we know that their use can add to the trauma of the crisis and potentially delay that person’s recovery.”The Home Office said adults should only be taken to police cells in “exceptional circumstances” but did not comment on the call for a ban.A spokeswoman said: “We are committed to ensuring those in mental health crisis get compassionate care and that no one is taken to a cell when they have committed no crime and solely because there is no alternative safe place for them. Significant progress has been made by the police and health partners in halving the use of police cells for those in mental health crisis over the last year. But there is still more work to be done. “Changes to legislation through the Policing and Crime Bill will ban the use of police cells for under 18s in mental health crisis, and ensure they can only be used as a place of safety for adults in genuinely exceptional circumstances.”US army and CIA may be guilty of war crimes in Afghanistan, says ICCThat fake news and misinformation on Facebook could have influenced the outcome of the US presidential election is worrying (Opinion, 15 November), but, in reality, this is only tinkering around the edges of a major problem. The first amendment of the US constitution was designed to protect freedom of the press. However, for the most part, the supreme court has failed to use it to rule on libel cases: hence tabloids such as the National Enquirer can get away with printing pretty much anything they like.It is possible to police the publishing and broadcasting industry – if nations are willing to do it. Sufficient staff (not robots) need to be employed to fact-check before publishing or broadcasting. Facebook has the power to influence on a macro scale, so it should also come under the same regulation. It certainly can afford the cost of editorial teams to manage its publications. There’s an easy rule: if in doubt, don’t publish. The Guardian already regulates this problem with the polite words: “This comment was removed by a moderator because it didn’t abide by our community standards.” Wikipedia, an open source encyclopedia, successfully regulates itself. Anyone can correct misinformation published on the site and citations are required, with it being very clear when a citation (proof) is missing. Information is democratically tuned in real time.Alison HackettDun Laoghaire, Co Dublin, Ireland• In recommending a pre-arrest name suppression regime for suspected sexual offences (Report, theguardian.com, 9 November), Richard Henriques, in his report on Operation Midland, supposes it to be unlikely that the government would sanction an anonymity before charge law, as this “would enrage the popular press whose circulation would suffer”. He is unduly pessimistic. It is true that some newspapers have raised the false spectre of “secret arrests”, but in 2013 no less a figure than David Cameron spoke warmly of the need to protect individuals from “genuinely life-changing publicity”. As home secretary, Theresa May agreed. A significant proportion of arrests on suspicion of having committed serious offences never lead to charge and the lives of many people have been needlessly blighted in consequence of being named in the media. A general ban on publishing the name of a suspect before charge could be lifted in exceptional cases where it was considered likely to encourage other genuine complainants to come forward, but only with advance judicial approval.David Wolchover Ridgeway Chambers, Anthony Heaton-Armstrong 9-12 Bell YardContributing co-editors, Witness Testimony in Sexual Cases• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersThe high court has ordered up to 10,000 prison officers to end a 24-hour protest over rising violence in jails and to go back to work after legal action by the justice secretary, Elizabeth Truss.Mr Justice Kerr granted an injunction on Tuesday afternoon restraining the Prison Officers’ Association (POA) from “inducing any form of industrial action” and reaffirming the legal ban on prison staff striking.Government lawyers accused the POA of trying to “impose their own limited regime” in jails across England and Wales against the wishes of the Prison Service by taking action that amounted to a strike.“What they are doing is seeking to take over the control of jails from governors and run them on a controlled lock-down basis,” said Daniel Stilitz QC, counsel for the Ministry of Justice. “Each hour that goes by with the prisons unmanned, the danger ramps up.”The POA said on Tuesday evening that it had asked its members to comply with the court order from 5pm. After a “long and very difficult day” it said it had achieved its aim of securing a meeting with the justice secretary within the next 48 hours.The union had insisted that the 24-hour protest, which included a provision for emergency cover, was necessary to keep staff and inmates safe in the face of a surge in jail violence and a prison system in “meltdown”.After the ruling, a Ministry of Justice spokeswoman said an immediate return to work was expected: “The injunction prevents the POA and any of its officials including local officials from inducing, authorising or supporting any form of industrial action by any prison officer which would disrupt the normal running of the prison service in England and Wales.The injunction came after Truss had condemned the protest as “unlawful industrial action”. She told the Commons the 24-hour walkout, which had been due to end at midnight on Tuesday, was putting more people in danger.Truss called Labour’s refusal to join her in condemning the POA a “disgrace”, and accused the union of walking away from talks and taking action without any notice.The protest has disrupted hundreds of trials across the country, including at the Old Bailey and the court of appeal in London. Among these was that of Thomas Mair, the man accused of murdering the Labour MP Jo Cox.The shadow justice secretary, Richard Burgon, did not respond to Truss’s demand that he condemn the POA, instead blaming her for refusing to recognise there was a prisons crisis that she could not control.The Conservative chair of the justice select committee, Bob Neill, joined Truss in condemning the POA action but asked her to recognise that there was an underlying issue of prison officer morale and the loss of many experienced staff.Though emergency cover is being provided, the POA action at every jail in England and Wales means prisoners are being kept in their cells – a situation described as dangerous by the chief executive of the National Offender Management Service, Michael Spurr.Spurr said the prison officers’ protest amounted to a strike, which the POA is banned from taking by law. The Ministry of Justice is to ask the courts to ban the 24-hour protest action.“We will be seeking relief from the courts later today … Rather than talk to us the prison officers have taken protest action, which by any other means would be classed as industrial action. They are not working. Prisoners are not being unlocked and that is a dangerous situation,” he said.He was supported by Sir Martin Narey, the former director-general of the prison service, who said the POA action had come after Truss had undertaken “a massive reversal of inept staffing cuts”. He called the POA action “hard to fathom, impossible to support”.The union’s instructions to its members asked them to stage protest action outside their jails for 24 hours until midnight on Tuesday. Emergency cover was being negotiated at each prison to deal with fires, incidents of self-harm, issuing essential medication to prisoners, hospital bed watches and maintaining unit patrols. Each POA branch was asked to negotiate on a jail-by-jail basis on an action plan to establish minimum safety levels.The protests also led to the cancellation of a Commons justice select committee hearing during which MPs were to hear evidence from prison governors on the government’s safety and reform programme outlined by Truss two weeks ago.The POA said it had consistently raised the “volatile and dangerous state of prisons, as chronic staff shortages and impoverished regimes has resulted in staff no longer being safe, a lack of discipline and prisoners taking control of areas”.The statement from its national executive said the continued surge in violence and unprecedented levels of suicide and acts of self-harm, coupled with recent murder and escapes, showed that the system was in meltdown.Dave Todd, the POA south-east representative, was outside Pentonville prison in London, where there was a recent jailbreak. He said conditions in jails were “volatile and dangerous”. “We need to act to protect ourselves. It has not come about quickly, it’s a build-up over probably years actually. It’s just unsafe. To me, prison officers taking this type of action speaks volumes for what’s happening inside,” he said.Todd, a former soldier, added: “I served in Northern Ireland and I felt more vulnerable walking the landings in prisons than I did on the streets of Northern Ireland.”The MoJ said there was no justification for the action: “We have been engaged in constructive talks with the POA over the last two weeks and have provided a comprehensive response to a range of health and safety concerns.“The government has announced an additional 2,500 frontline officers to help reduce violence in prisons. We have well-established contingencies in place to manage prisons and keep the public safe, but we are clear that this constitutes unlawful industrial action, and we will seek remedy in the courts.”An Amnesty International poster campaign aimed at highlighting how the Human Rights Act has helped causes as disparate as the Hillsborough families and the Northern Ireland peace process has been banned by Network Rail as too political, the rights group has said.Amnesty said on Tuesday it was disappointed that posters booked for rail stations around the country had been pulled, even though Transport for London had run them at an underground station.Network Rail confirmed it had pulled the posters, saying they did not meet its rules on political advertising, in part because they directed people towards an online petition against government plans to scrap the act.The Amnesty campaign, which has also run in print and online, uses people who have been involved in cases involving the Human Rights Act, including relatives of those who died in the 1989 Hillsborough disaster, people connected with the Northern Ireland peace process, a couple whose son died because of hospital blunders and a woman who fought to uncover police errors after her mother was murdered.The government has committed to repealing the act, passed in 1998 under Tony Blair’s government to incorporate the European convention on human rights into UK law. Ministers have pledged to replace it with a bill of rights, though the timetable for this process remains vague.Amnesty said it had arranged for the cancelled posters to be displayed at other sites.Kate Allen, Amnesty’s UK director, said: “We’re very disappointed by Network Rail’s decision to pull these adverts at the 11th hour. We simply don’t accept that basic human rights are ever a political issue.“The irony is that human rights cross party-political lines and so do failures, coverups and abuses. Successive governments managed to let down the Hillsborough families, and their story demonstrates precisely why we need enduring human rights protections which aren’t redrafted by the government of the day, on a political whim.”A Network Rail spokeswoman said: “We first saw the adverts yesterday and on inspection, they don’t meet our rules on ‘political’ advertising. We aim to be fair and even-handed when deciding which adverts to accept in our stations and have a set of rules in place to ensure all advertising is treated equally.“The advertisement directs people to sign an online petition, and it is for this reason we deemed it political and against our rules.”The decision prompted criticism from activists, and people associated with the Amnesty campaign.Barry Devonside, whose 18-year-old son, Christopher, died at Hillsborough, said the decision was small-minded, adding: “Human rights aren’t political; they cover everyone, right across society.”Introducing the campaign on Tuesday, Becky Shah, whose mother, Inger, also died at Hillsborough, said the act had been crucial in securing the second inquest into the deaths, which recorded that the victims were unlawfully killed.Under the act, a jury can be convened to assess the wider circumstances surrounding a death – something that had not been legislated for before it came into law.Shah said: “Without the Human Rights Act we would never, ever have had the second inquest. Without the Human Rights Act we would never, ever have got the verdicts of unlawfully killed against all the parties that were culpable. It was an absolutely imperative piece of legislation.”Other people involved include Gary McKinnon, who successfully fought extradition to the US on hacking charges, and the parents of John Robinson, who died in 2006 from a ruptured spleen after doctors at Stafford hospital sent him home even though he was vomiting and semi-conscious. It took a second inquest into Robinson’s death in 2014 to uncover the scale of the errors.“It’s fundamental to everyone, in all walks of life,” Frank Robinson said of the act. “It opens access to justice for the man in the street. From the outset, all we wanted to know was the truth, and we were denied that by an inadequate first inquest. Using the Human Rights Act helped us achieve our goal.”The number of workers in the UK in precarious positions where they could lose their jobs at short or no notice has grown by almost 2 million in the past decade, as businesses insist on using more self-employed workers and increasingly recruit staff on temporary and zero-hours contracts, analysis for the Guardian has revealed.More than one in five workers, some 7.1 million people, now face precarious employment conditions that mean they could lose their work suddenly – up from 5.3 million in 2006, according to analysis of official figures conducted by John Philpott, a leading labour market economist. Half of the biggest group – the self-employed – are in low pay and take home less than two-thirds of the median earnings, according to the Resolution Foundation thinktank. Two million self-employed people now earn below £8 per hour.The extent of the precarious work phenomenon emerges as a Downing Street-commissioned inquiry into modern employment practices gears up. Amid growing concern about the social impact of a workforce increasingly divided between low-paid, low-skilled and insecure work and higher-paid, higher-skilled employment, the Guardian is publishing a series of articles on the consequences of the change for the kind of workers described by Theresa May as “just managing”.The government is concerned that the lack of training offered in precarious work, particularly in self-employment, is “completely backward”, according to a No 10 source. The fear is that it entrenches low pay and hinders career progression to higher earnings.Meanwhile, 750,000 more people are on zero-hours contracts than in 2006, and 207,000 more people are working as temps, according to Philpott’s analysis of the government’s labour force survey. Some of the zero hours workers may also be included in the temp count – 32% in the most recent set of figures.“There is something profound going on and all of this poses a potential risk to social cohesion and a risk to the potential for social mobility,” Alan Milburn, the chairman of the government’s commission into social mobility, told a recent event on precarious working.The issue has also been prioritised at the Trades Union Congress, which has launched a review of the scale and nature of vulnerable work in Britain.Companies such as Argos and Tesco use thousands of agency temps. Sainsbury is now using 54 different employment agencies for its temporary warehouse workers. The taxi company Uber and courier firms Hermes and Yodel are among firms relying on 4.7 million “self-employed” workers, although Uber recently lost a landmark employment tribunal case when judges ruled that its self-employed drivers should be treated as workers and paid the “national minimum wage”, enjoy paid holidays and get sick pay.Anxiety about low pay is running so high that more than 10,000 people called the Acas minimum wage helpline in the five months to September concerned they were not receiving the statutory minimum – a 73% increase on the same period last year, according to figures released to the Guardian. The UK currently has a greater proportion of full-time employees in low pay than all but seven of the 22 developed nations in the OECD.“The rise in self-employment has been hailed as part of the economy’s success story in the recovery, but for thousands of people it can mask some worrying trends – namely being forced into precarious, low-paid work,” said Ashwin Kumar, chief economist at the Joseph Rowntree Foundation. He pointed out that self-employed families were more likely to live in poverty, with a median income of £209 a week against £384 for employees.Vulnerable work does not always mean poor pay and conditions, but while many workers choose self-employment or temporary contracts, earnings on average are much lower. Self-employed workers typically earn about half the wage of permanent employees, zero-hours contractors about 40% and temp workers around two-thirds, Philpott said in his analysis for the Guardian, although this is complicated by the variability of hours worked.The impact of the changes to pay is not spread evenly across the UK. An estimated one in four of all workers in the Greater Lincolnshire area, for example, is forecast to be earning near or below the national living wage or the national minimum wage by 2020 – an increase from one in 10 in 2015, according to analysis by the Resolution Foundation. Other areas badly affected include London, Nottingham, Liverpool and the Tees valley.The human impact of the phenomenon is also becoming clear. Last year, a review of studies around the world published in the BMC Public Health journal concluded that job insecurity posed a comparable threat to health as unemployment – and that anticipating a job loss could actually have a more significant effect than experiencing it.Young adults have been hit hardest by the long-term trend. The proportion of working 16- to 20-year-olds in low pay rose from 58% in 1990 to 77% in 2015, while the proportion aged 21 to 25 rose from 22% to 40%, according to Resolution Foundation analysis. Older workers have become less likely to endure low pay.The attractions of flexible or insecure contracts are considerable to employers and they dispute many of the downsides that unions, workers and analysts have highlighted.Deliveroo is a multinational company that relies on 8,000 self-employed workers in the UK to deliver takeaway meals by bicycle. By contrast, in the Netherlands and Germany it directly employs 1,500 couriers, which might suggest that its business model, in those countries at least, is not reliant on self-employment. Lawyers for several Deliveroo riders in the UK are at the early stages of considering making a claim against the company for false self-employment, something Deliveroo denies.But Deliveroo describes its riders as “independent suppliers” and in a statement a spokesman said this status was because “the flexibility this offers is important to them”.It is not just insurgent tech companies that use large numbers of non-staff workers to deliver their core services. Tesco, Britain’s biggest supermarket chain, said between 35% and 40% of its warehouse workers – some 6,000 – are provided by agencies.For many of our biggest brands, employment arrangements resemble a Russian doll. Amazon relies on thousands of self-employed workers to deliver its parcels and subcontracts to companies such as Hermes and Yodel, which subcontract to thousands more couriers themselves.For warehouse workers who are not directly employed, Sainsbury uses a similar multilayered arrangement. It has a contract with De Poel, an agency services provider, which in turn manages contracts with employment agencies, which then hire staff. Sainsbury says the vast majority of these workers have full-time contracts but some drivers are on limited-hours contracts, something the retailer says it is monitoring with the agencies.“Like all large retailers, working with agencies allows our distribution network to accommodate business needs – Christmas being the obvious example,” a spokesperson said.That argument about fluctuating demand is a powerful one for many companies. “One of the attractions of flexible contract options for businesses is being able to meet more volatile demand patterns in increasingly 24/7 markets,” said Neil Carberry, director for people and skills at the Confederation of British Industry. Nonetheless, he insists that the trend is not significant. “There have been claims that the mass casualisation of the British labour market is around the corner for 30 years. But the need to retain talent and build productivity in companies mean that directly employed staff will always be the majority of our labour market.”“No form of contract is inherently problematic,” he added. “It is about how companies deal with their staff … The key thing is good management, and businesses are committed to doing that well.”Some of the 7.2 million workers now in precarious employment might disagree that is always the case.Norma, a mother of three from Rotherham, has been juggling three self-employed jobs to try to make ends meet. She worked six days a week delivering parcels for Yodel, which earned her between £400 and £800 a month before paying her car expenses; she delivered 500 newspapers a week for Whistl, earning about £25 a week; and she ran her own small online business selling cross-stitch craft kits she assembled in her conservatory.“It was a fine balancing act for the family,” she said. “I never knew how much money was going to be in the bank. If it was a slow month I would be worried about finding extra work from somewhere. I couldn’t make the money I needed in the time I’d got.”Yaseen Aslam, a former Uber driver, is also self-employed – but succeeded along with another driver in challenging that status at a recent employment tribunal. .“When I first started minicab driving eight years ago, I used to do 30 hours a week and took home £500 after expenses,” said Aslam, a 35-year-old married father of three from High Wycombe.“I was self-employed and I felt self-employed. Over time we have lost control of what we were making. There were lots of advance bookings but with technology things changed. We have no sense of what we were going to be making, the prices fell and more drivers came on to the streets. I was getting between £50 and £100 per day before expenses, which was much less. I didn’t have any quality family time and I was busy working all the time just to pay my bills.”He has found another form of self-employment, again enabled by the internet: trading merchandise on eBay from his home.We write to address the central misrepresentation in Helena Pozniak’s article (The criminology course opening the door to education for prisoners, theguardian.com, 9 November) regarding UK prison education programmes.Pozniak’s article details a UK initiative which features the hallmarks of a US programme established 20 years ago. The Inside-Out prison education programme’s recognised characteristics include Inside (prison) students joining with Outside (university) students to engage in a transformative learning experience within prison, in an atmosphere of mutual respect, with rules of conduct explicitly agreed at the start. All students complete the same readings and assessments, engage in weekly academic discussions about criminal justice and related issues, and obtain a certificate recognising their successful completion at a closing ceremony. Professor Lori Pompa established Inside-Out 20 years ago in the US in collaboration with men incarcerated in Graterford Correctional Facility, Philadelphia, many of whom are serving life sentences without parole and who continue, with Pompa, to offer intensive training to any academic wishing to roll out this unique model of community-based education. With more than 500 Inside-Out instructors and 20,000 alumni across the US, Australia, and Europe, Pompa will this month receive the American Society of Criminology lifetime achievement award for teaching in recognition of her efforts. We welcome the contribution that any UK colleagues make in developing prison education opportunities here but urge them to acknowledge Inside-Out and the role it has played in shaping their project if drawing so heavily upon it.Professor Fiona Measham, Dr Kate O’Brien, Dr Hannah King, Dr Ivan Hill, Diana Scott Durham UniversityDr Caroline Chatwin, Dr Camille Stengal, Dr Marianne Duggan University of KentTom Raymen University of PlymouthDr Eric Baumgartner, Dr Laura Goldsack University of TeessideDr Joey Whitfield University of LeedsDr Anne Schwan Edinburgh Napier University• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersOf the documents that set out the legal and policy framework for the drone campaign, the three posted below are among the most significant. In late 2009 or early 2010, the justice department’s Office of Legal Counsel orally approved the targeting of Anwar al-Awlaki, an American citizen. In two memos – one dated February 2010 and the other July 2010 – the Office of Legal Counsel sought to justify the authorization it had already given. An American drone strike killed Anwar al-Awlaki the following September, and another killed his 16-year-old American son two weeks later. In the spring of 2013, Barack Obama signed Presidential Policy Guidance meant to regularize the drone campaign. That document, which the American Civil Liberties Union obtained through litigation earlier this year, provides the policy framework for drone strikes carried out by the United States today.The government has demonstrated a “signal breach of faith” in cutting the pensions of recently appointed judges, an employment tribunal has been told.Presenting a claim on behalf of six high court judges against the Ministry of Justice, Michael Beloff QC said it was irrelevant that they earned more than most other public sector workers or that “there is a need to cut public expenditure”. High court judges get a salary of about £180,000 a year.What was significant, he said, was that older judges were allowed to retain more generous pension arrangements while younger judges had suffered a “double whammy” because their payments on retirement had been reduced and a harsher tax regime had been introduced.As well as the six high court judges, another 204 crown court judges, district judges, sheriffs and tribunal judges are jointly challenging the MoJ’s pension cuts.The six high court claimants are Sir Nicholas Mostyn, 59, Sir Roderick Newton, 58, Sir Philip Moor, 57, Dame Lucy Theis, 55, Sir Richard Arnold, 55, and Sir Rabinder Singh, 52.They allege they are being discriminated against on the basis of age. Theis and Singh additionally claim gender and race discrimination respectively. The hearing at the central London employment tribunal is scheduled to last 10 days.Opening the case, Beloff explained that barristers normally incurred a large drop in income, on average approximately 68%, when they become judges.He added: “The drop in income is the price paid by those who leave private practice and join the public service.“What they could not have anticipated is that the terms on which they were appointed in respect of their pensions, which are recognised to be the compensating benefit, would be cut by the government to their substantial financial detriment.”The old judicial pensions – which before 2012 did not require any employee contributions – provided an income of a 40th of a judge’s final pensionable pay multiplied by his or her length of service. It also gave a lump sump on retirement, after the age of 65, of two and a quarter times the annual rate.The new judicial pensions include no lump sum payments. They accumulate at the slower rate of a 43rd of the final pensionable pay per year of service, and include contribution rates that are due to rise to up to 8% of pensionable pay. Beloff quoted from a letter sent by former lord chancellor Chris Grayling which acknowledged that reform of pensions rights raised “important constitutional principles”.Beloff said: “Judges are not in the same position as other public sector workers. Judges have a constitutional role which other public sector workers do not face. That is not to disparage other public sector workers. They just work differently. Once embarked on a career as a judge, there’s no turning back. It’s a one-way street.”No judge can return to the bar or act as a solicitor again after being appointed. Judges are also banned from supplementing their income, he added.Andrew Short QC, counsel for the 204 other judges in the case represented by the law firm Leigh Day, suggested the idea that older judges should be spared changes because they have less time to adjust before retirement was illogical because the older appointees would be exposed to the changes for a shorter period of time. Martin Chamberlain QC, for the lord chancellor and the MoJ, said there was no constitutional principle requiring sitting judges to be insulated from adverse pension changes when other public servants were not.He told the tribunal it was legitimate to enforce a transitional protection period for those judges who, being closer to retirement, were more likely to have made “concrete plans” about their financial futures based on the existing scheme. Chamberlain also outlined alternatives considered by government before legislating the changes, including an “expensive option” of staggering their introduction, which would have cost £4bn in the first year.US armed forces and the CIA may have committed war crimes by torturing detainees in Afghanistan, the international criminal court’s chief prosecutor has said in a report, raising the possibility that American citizens could be indicted even though Washington has not joined the global court.“Members of US armed forces appear to have subjected at least 61 detained persons to torture, cruel treatment, outrages upon personal dignity on the territory of Afghanistan between 1 May 2003 and 31 December 2014,” according to the report issued by prosecutor Fatou Bensouda’s office on Monday.The report adds that CIA operatives may have subjected at least 27 detainees in Afghanistan, Poland, Romania and Lithuania to “torture, cruel treatment, outrages upon personal dignity and/or rape” between December 2002 and March 2008.Most of the alleged abuse happened in 2003-04, the report says.Prosecutors said they would decide “imminently” whether to seek authorisation to open a full-scale investigation in Afghanistan that could lead to war crimes charges.Elizabeth Trudeau, the spokeswoman for the State Department, said the US did not believe an ICC investigation was “warranted or appropriate”.“The United States is deeply committed to complying with the law of war, and we have a robust national system of investigation and accountability that more than meets international standards,” Trudeau said.A Pentagon spokesman, Navy Capt Jeff Davis, said officials were awaiting further details about the ICC findings before commenting.Established in 2002, the international criminal court is the world’s first permanent court set up to prosecute war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. More than 120 countries are members, but superpowers including the US, Russia and China have not signed up.The former US president Bill Clinton signed the Rome treaty that established the court on 31 Deember 2000, but President George W Bush renounced the signature, citing fears that Americans would be unfairly prosecuted for political reasons.Even though the US is not a member of the court, Americans could still face prosecution at its headquarters in The Hague if they commit crimes within its jurisdiction in a country that is a member, such as Afghanistan, and are not prosecuted at home.So far, all of the ICC’s trials have dealt with crimes committed in Africa.Prosecutors say investigations also are reportedly under way in Poland, Romania and Lithuania, which are all signatories to the Rome statute, into possible crimes at CIA detention facilities in those countries.The abuse allegations came in a wide-ranging annual report into the prosecution office’s preliminary examinations, which involve studying reports of possible crimes to establish if they fall under the court’s jurisdiction.The same report says that Taliban and Afghan government forces also may have used torture and committed other atrocities in that country’s long and bitter conflict. The report says the Taliban and its affiliates killed thousands of people and are suspected of committing war crimes including murder, recruiting and conscripting child soldiers and attacking civilians and humanitarian workers.Referring to the alleged US war crimes, the report says they “were not the abuses of a few isolated individuals. Rather, they appear to have been committed as part of approved interrogation techniques in an attempt to extract ‘actionable intelligence’ from detainees”.The report adds: “The information available suggests that victims were deliberately subjected to physical and psychological violence, and that crimes were allegedly committed with particular cruelty and in a manner that debased the basic human dignity of the victims.”Before deciding to open a full-scale investigation, ICC prosecutors have to establish whether they have jurisdiction and whether the alleged crimes are being investigated and prosecuted in the countries involved. The ICC is a court of last resort that takes on cases only when other countries are unable or unwilling to prosecute.The report notes that US authorities have conducted dozens of investigations and court martial cases and says ICC prosecutors are seeking further clarifications on their scope before deciding whether any American cases would be admissible at the ICC.After the 9/11 attacks, George W Bush’s administration allowed the use of waterboarding, which simulates drowning, and other enhanced interrogation techniques against suspected terrorists. President Barack Obama banned such practices after taking office in 2009.During the presidential campaign, the Republican nominee Donald Trump suggested that as president he would push to change laws that prohibit waterboarding and other harsh interrogation techniques, arguing that banning them put the US at a strategic disadvantage against Islamic State militants.In the early part of this century I gained unauthorised access to government computer systems in the US, in a successful attempt to find evidence of official knowledge of the UFO phenomenon. What followed was a decade-long nightmare. I slipped further and further into depression as the years wore on, having to take Prozac and regularly see a therapist. The emotional wear and tear on my family was one of the worst parts, watching them fight and mostly lose for 10 years.I was arrested in March 2002 for the crime of unauthorised access, which at that time carried a maximum penalty of six months’ imprisonment. The American and British authorities delayed any criminal proceedings seemingly so that they had time to bring in the US-UK extradition treaty, which seemed almost tailor-made for my case and others like it. This treaty was drawn up (in American spelling …) in 2003, but not ratified by the US until 2006. Despite this some people (including the NatWest Three) were extradited under it prior to ratification.All the US had to do was accuse someone of something and that was that. This couldn’t happen to a US citizen under the same treaty, since they are afforded the protection of their constitution.We were told there was no evidence of the alleged damage, and yet we still had to fight against these accusations. When a case like that goes on for years it wears you down more and more on a daily basis. My life was on hold, as I sank ever deeper into depression. Then, one day in 2008, things started to change.After being interviewed on ITV, quite a few people watching – including a woman who had Asperger’s syndrome, a condition on the autistic spectrum – thought that I was displaying classic signs of the same condition. This view tallied with many mental health professionals who were watching and took the time to communicate their feelings to my solicitors.People had always commented that I was odd, at school and at work, but no one ever suggested I might have a condition that needed treatment. I was completely averse to being diagnosed for Asperger’s, since I was already extremely low-spirited and really didn’t want psychologists poking around in my mind. Eventually I gave in and was diagnosed by several of the top people in the field, including Simon Baron-Cohen, who all agreed that I had Asperger’s and that this made me vulnerable.The thought of being in a foreign jail, in a country where you have been accused of attacking electronic assets at a time when terrorism was an ever-present threat, was terrifying. It had seemed there was no way out after multiple judicial reviews, so I bought enough potassium chloride to stop my heart. This chemical is the third one used in the trio of lethal injection chemicals they use in the US.I was a hopeless zombie, on Prozac and thinking that one way or the other my life would soon be at an end. But then the Human Rights Act aspect was raised. Was it compatible with my human rights as a vulnerable adult to be thrown into a hostile foreign jail with no evidence of my crimes? We hadn’t had any luck with previous home secretaries – until Theresa May.A lot happened between the Asperger’s diagnosis in 2008 and our final victory in 2012 – more judicial reviews, appeals to the supreme court, presidents and prime ministers discussing my case on television – but it was all going on far away from me. I felt distanced from everything. In 2012, May courageously and compassionately agreed that extradition to the US was incompatible with my human rights, and blocked the extradition on those grounds. Where extradition legislation failed, the Human Rights Act delivered.Some in the media have spoken out against the act, providing extreme examples of how it can be misused in an attempt to increase negative feelings towards it, but what we have to remember is this – human rights don’t change. Slavery and forced labour will always be wrongs; freedom of thought, belief and religion will always be rights.May was then my only hope for protection, and today she is in the unique position of being the only hope for the Human Rights Act itself. I owe my life to her and to the act, and it would be a great shame if the ladder by which I was rescued was kicked away so that the next person who needs it finds it gone.Unearthing the truth about what happened at Hillsborough in 1989 would have been impossible without the Human Rights Act, according to one of the relatives who successfully fought against the original inquest ruling on the deaths of the 96 victims.Introducing a campaign in defence of the legislation, Becky Shah, whose mother, Inger, died at Hillsborough, said the act had been crucial in securing the second inquest into the deaths, which recorded that the victims were unlawfully killed.Under the Human Rights Act, a jury can be convened to assess the wider circumstances surrounding a death – something that had not been legislated for before it came into law.Shah said: “Without the Human Rights Act we would never, ever have had the second inquest. Without the Human Rights Act we would never, ever have got the verdicts of unlawfully killed against all the parties that were culpable. It was an absolutely imperative piece of legislation.”Her remarks are at the centre of an Amnesty International campaign warning that if the Human Rights Act is repealed when the UK leaves the EU, there could be miscarriages of justice.Replacing the act with a UK bill of rights was part of the 2015 Conservative manifesto, but there have been reports that the much-delayed plan could be ditched. In August the justice secretary, Liz Truss, said it would still happen but gave no timeframe for it.The campaign to save the act has also been backed by the widower of a woman killed by an IRA bomb, and a couple who used the legislation to uncover negligence that had led to their son’s death.Other people involved include Gary McKinnon, who successfully fought extradition to the US on hacking charges, and a woman who used the act to uncover police errors committed before her mother was murdered.Shah, whose brother survived the Hillsborough crush, said she was “extremely worried” about what could happen if the act was repealed. She said: “My fear is that if the Human Rights Act were to be abolished and replaced with the British bill of rights, which would be very limited, miscarriages of justice would go back to being far more easily perpetrated by the state.”Alan McBride, whose wife, Sharon, died in the 1993 Shankill bombing, and who has since worked on community reconciliation, said the act was “extremely important” for the Northern Ireland peace process.“What the Human Rights Act does is to give a safeguard. If you think you’re not getting anywhere through the normal course of law and order, at least you have this fallback,” he said.“It’s enshrined in it that if your loved one is murdered you’re entitled to an investigation and be told about where that has got to. Without that, I don’t know where your redress would be.”McKinnon, whose extradition was eventually blocked partly because he has Asperger’s syndrome, said the act played a key role in his case.He said: “The Human Rights Act is important because it legislates for the protection of basic freedoms. These freedoms are unchanging, so the act itself should only be added to, not lessened or restricted or done away with.“The act also gets a lot of bad press, with extreme examples of its use in terror cases, but we shouldn’t let a few bad interpretations get in the way of a necessary act.”The parents of John Robinson, who died in 2006 from a ruptured spleen after doctors at Stafford hospital sent him home even though he was vomiting and semi-conscious, also support the campaign. It took a second inquest into John’s death in 2014 to uncover the scale of the errors.“It’s fundamental to everyone, in all walks of life,” Frank Robinson said of the act. “It opens access to justice for the man in the street. From the onset, all we wanted to know was the truth, and we were denied that by an inadequate first inquest. Using the Human Rights Act helped us achieve our goal.”Asked about plans for a bill of rights, a Ministry of Justice spokeswoman said: “We will set out our proposals for a bill of rights in due course. We will consult fully on our proposals.”As well as a series of videos highlighting the variety of people helped by the act, Amnesty commissioned a poll showing around two-thirds of people did not realise it had played a role in the new Hillsborough inquest or in the Good Friday peace process in Northern Ireland.Kate Allen, UK director for Amnesty International, said the findings were understandable given the “misreporting and myth-making” about the act.She said: “It’s no surprise that after they’ve been force-fed a diet of distortion, relatively few people know about the role the Human Rights Act has played in helping ordinary people up and down the country win historic legal battles.”Guidelines say children and people with learning difficulties should not be subject to unnecessarily harsh questioningChild trafficking victims and unaccompanied children are going missing from local authority care at an “alarming” rate according to a new report, which reveals that in one year, nearly 30% of all UK child trafficking victims and 13% of unaccompanied children disappeared from care services.New research by child trafficking NGO Ecpat UK and the charity Missing People has found that 167 of the 590 children suspected or identified as child trafficking victims in the year from September 2014 to 2015 vanished from foster and care homes across the country.An additional 593 of the 4,744 unaccompanied children placed under the protection of local authorities also went missing at least once in the same time period. Of the 760 trafficked or unaccompanied children who disappeared from care, 207 have never been found.The new data, drawn largely from freedom of information requests to 217 local authorities across the UK, shows that Thurrock, Hillingdon, Croydon, Kent County Council and Surrey had the highest numbers of trafficked and unaccompanied children who were unaccounted for. One local authority reported that 22 child trafficking victims had gone missing in the recorded time period.The majority of child trafficking victims who vanished from care are from Vietnam, Albania and the UK. Most of the unaccompanied children who went missing are from Afghanistan, Eritrea, Albania and Vietnam.Despite the high numbers, Ecpat says that the real scale of the UK’s missing child trafficking victims is still not accurately reflected in the data.Chloe Setter, Ecpat UK’s head of advocacy and policy, said there was “huge concern” that only 45 of the 217 local authorities asked for information were able or willing to provide data on the numbers of children whose whereabouts were still unknown.“I think what is most alarming about this survey isn’t the data we’ve received, it is the data that we haven’t,” said Setter.“Twenty per cent of the local authorities we contacted could not even report how many children in their care were [formally] identified or suspected of being trafficked. Only 10 local authorities could report the nationalities of the trafficked children who had disappeared. It is unacceptable that we can’t get a clear picture on how many exploited children are simply falling off the radar and, in the case of trafficked children, presumed to be back in the hands of their exploiters. These are hundreds of children who have simply vanished from places where they should have been protected.”The report also underscores issues with identification and recording practices. Despite London being a prime destination for human traffickers, 10 of 33 local authorities reported zero trafficked children, and an additional four local authorities were unable to provide any information.“There has to be an improved data recording system put in place for trafficked and missing children,” said Setter. “Many of the authorities we asked couldn’t even search for these children in their existing databases.”The report cites various reasons for the children going missing, from the failure of the government to identify trafficked children, to the influence and control of traffickers, lack of trust in adults and lack of consistent support. Poor protection measures, as well as asylum and immigration concerns, were also noted.Ecpat and Missing Children say that in order to stem the flow of exploited children disappearing from care services, the child protection system must be expanded to introduce specific training on child trafficking and unaccompanied children and investment in appropriate accommodation and support services.Lynne Chitty, UK care director at the anti-trafficking charity Love146, said she was not surprised by the findings of the report and expected the numbers to continue to rise if urgent safeguarding policies were not implemented immediately.“Every week we see children going missing, most within 24 hours of arriving in care, and we know child trafficking victims are largely going back to their traffickers,” she said. “Many are in debt bondage or have been given a number to call as soon as they get taken into care. They aren’t getting the protection, services or support they need to stop them from believing that their traffickers are the only option for them here.”A spokesperson for the Department for Education said: “It is vital that children in care are protected from harm. We have already strengthened regulations on children’s homes, and local authorities have a duty to tell us about all incidents of young people going missing.“But we know trafficked and unaccompanied asylum-seeking children are especially vulnerable. That’s why we have commissioned specialist training for those caring for them, committed to an independent advocate in each area to help champion their rights and outlined clear plans for a new government strategy to look at their particular needs, including reviewing the accommodation available.”We are delighted to see the that committee stage of the cultural property (armed conflict) bill takes place on 15 November in the House of Commons after its all-party-supported, steady progress through the House of Lords. This legislation will enable the UK to ratify the 1954 Hague convention on the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict and its two protocols, making the UK the only member of the UN’s permanent five to have ratified all parts of the convention and one of the leading international players regarding the protection of cultural property during war.However, we have the opportunity to become the leading international player. The UK government currently faces a similar opportunity to that confronted by the Swiss in the 1860s: to help an embryonic international organisation become established. The International Blue Shield, frequently referred to as the “cultural equivalent of the Red Cross”, was set up by the international community in 1996 – but without funding. Through the UK’s newly created cultural protection fund (CPF) we could, and must, support a small Blue Shield team in London to not only help its 25 existing voluntary national committees and the plethora of diverse activity currently taking place regarding the protection of the cultural heritage of the Middle East, but to act as a centre of excellence and support for those trying to protect heritage during conflict anywhere in the world.The CPF provides the means by which we can grasp this opportunity; we urge the government to seize it.Dr Mike Heyworth Director, Council for British ArchaeologyEarl of Clancarty House of LordsBaroness Kay Andrews House of LordsAlan Howarth House of LordsRupert Mitford House of LordsColin Renfrew House of LordsSharon Heal Director, Museums AssociationSue Cole Icomos-Icorp UKNick Poole Chief executive, CILIPProf Barry CunliffeProf Nigel Pollard Associate Professor of ancient history, Swansea UniversityJulian Radcliffe Art Loss RegisterBijan Rouhani Icomos-Icorp• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersI suspect China saw the appointment of Meng Hongwei as president of Interpol’s executive committee as a PR victory – evidence of China’s growing influence on the international stage. Thankfully, the occasion was used as an opportunity to highlight the country’s appalling rights record (New Interpol head is Chinese former deputy head of paramilitary police force, 11 November). China is one of many countries that have misused Interpol to pursue dissidents across the globe. It is wrong, however, to suggest that Hongwei’s appointment will allow China to do this more often and more easily. These decisions, with enormous implications for the people they affect, are made by Interpol’s secretariat, headed by Jurgen Stock (the real leader of Interpol’s operations).Under Stock, Interpol has started the long-overdue task of creating safeguards against the kinds of abuse suffered by Uighur activists pursued by China. Last week, Stock announced further much-needed reforms to maintain “the confidence and trust of national law enforcement and wider society in Interpol”. The detail of these reforms haven’t yet been published so it’s hard to predict whether they will be effective in weeding out abusive cases. Ultimately, Interpol should be judged by whether it continues to allow its systems to be used as a tool of persecution. If it fails to rise to this challenge, it will not only remain complicit in human rights abuse; but will also fail to meet the “highest legal standards” that its outgoing president last week recognised as crucial to its “credibility, legitimacy and effectiveness”.Jago RussellChief executive, Fair Trials• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/lettersThe home secretary, Amber Rudd, has signed an order for the extradition of a British man to the US, where his lawyers believe he could face up to 99 years in prison if convicted of hacking charges. Lauri Love is accused of stealing large amounts of data from US government agencies such as the Federal Reserve, the army, the Department of Defense, Nasa and the FBI in a spate of online attacks in 2012 and 2013.The 31-year-old activist, who has Asperger syndrome, lost his legal challenge to avoid extradition in September, and on Monday the Home Office said the necessary order allowing his removal had been signed after Rudd “carefully considered all relevant matters”.The Home Office said Love “has been charged with various computer hacking offences which included targeting US military and federal government agencies”. He has 14 days to appeal against the order and is expected to do so. Love, who also has depression and eczema, had argued that his health means a jail term in the US could drive him towards a mental breakdown or suicide. However, the district judge, Nina Tempia, said in her ruling on 16 September that Love could be cared for by “medical facilities in the United States prison estate”.She said he faced “extremely serious charges” and, while she accepted that he suffered from “both physical and mental health issues”, she believed provision for his condition was adequate in the US.US authorities have been fighting for Love to face trial there. He could face proceedings in three different US jurisdictions. Rudd had been given a deadline of 16 November to decide whether or not to order his extradition.It is alleged that between October 2012 and October 2013, Love placed hidden “shells” or “backdoors” within networks, allowing for confidential data to be stolen. He is accused of causing millions of dollars’ worth of damage.The Courage Foundation, which has supported Love in his legal fight, compared his case to that of Gary McKinnon, whose extradition was blocked by the then home secretary Theresa May in 2012.Sarah Harrison, the foundation’s acting director, said: “I am dismayed to hear that Lauri Love’s extradition request has been approved, as this puts him directly in harm’s way and fails to protect his human rights. The home secretary’s decision upholds a one-sided extradition treaty that leaves UK citizens without proper protections against the threat of US prosecution.“The US has ruthlessly persecuted hackers and digital activists for years, and nobody expects that to improve under President Trump. Theresa May set a good example by protecting Gary McKinnon back in 2012. For a home secretary in her government now to willingly send a brilliant and vulnerable UK citizen to Donald Trump’s America beggars belief.”In a letter to the Home Office opposing extradition because of the risk of suicide, Love’s solicitor, Karen Todner, wrote this month: “One hundred and fourteen MPs have written to President Obama inviting him to recognise the seriousness of Mr Love’s mental illness and withdraw the request for extradition to permit prosecution to proceed in England, where Mr Love would be able to stand trial on bail with the support of his close family and support network.“We … urge you to recognise that this is a case where the risk to Mr Love’s life arising from extradition is so great that it would be entirely justified for you to make your own representations to your US counterpart to withdraw the extradition request because a domestic prosecution in England would permit justice to be done and remove the severe risk to Mr Love’s life.”Love’s father, Alexander, said in response to Rudd’s decision: “It was going to happen – it was inevitable – but it’s still painful. I cannot begin to express how much sorrow it causes me. All we are asking for is British justice for a British citizen.”Barry Sheerman, one of more than 100 MPs who signed a letter calling on Barack Obama to block Love’s extradition, said he was “deeply disappointed”.“We are still keeping up the pressure. We are getting more and more MPs to sign the letter to President Obama,” the Labour MP for Huddersfield said. “The pressure continues. We won’t give up.”For American progressives, something far greater than the presidency was lost last week. Thanks to unprecedented and indeed unprincipled obstruction by Senate Republicans, Donald Trump will enter the White House with a supreme court vacancy to fill. Having failed to win control of the Senate, and with Republicans there promising to do away with the filibuster rule for supreme court nominations, it is now president-elect Trump’s prerogative to fill the high court seat that has sat empty for almost nine months, with any jurist he wishes, and to fill myriad judicial vacancies in the lower courts – some of which have remained empty for lengthy stretches, also due to GOP obstruction.In the near term, replacing Antonin Scalia with another rock-ribbed conservative – if Trump’s list of 21 possible nominees are any indication – simply means that America returns to a 5-4 court dominated by conservatives, with Anthony Kennedy occasionally (but with increasing frequency) defecting to vote with the liberals. In the longer term, with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg at 83, Anthony Kennedy 80 and Stephen Breyer at 78, Trump may have an opportunity to swing the high court to the hard right for decades. He has said that Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito are his model jurists. A few more such nominations in place of a Ginsburg or Kennedy will spell the end of the Warren court revolution, from the demise of Roe v Wade, to the slow erosion of racial and gender protections and environmental regulations.In the coming months and years, even a 5-4 supreme court dominated by conservatives can launch that project in very concrete ways, including two cases in which it tied 4-4 last year: one on President Obama’s immigration executive order, and another which will decide the future funding for all public sector unions. In both cases, plus a case already on the court’s docket regarding an Obama administration regulation on bathrooms for transgender students, it can be assumed that the court will tack right again, perhaps even as soon as this spring.A 5-4 court will also put its stamp of approval on another major legal project that involves dismantling civil rights laws in the name of the religious liberty of objectors. That started with the supreme court’s 2014 Hobby Lobby decision – allowing the religious owners of for-profit corporations to deny coverage for contraception to their secular workers, even when those workers had a statutory entitlement to it. A follow-on to that case from last term, in which religious non-profits – schools and hospitals – sought to similarly deny their workers such contraception, was sent back to the lower courts without guidance by an 8-0 court. You can be certain that when it returns to the supreme court, the objecting employees will be told to find their birth control elsewhere. In any event, it won’t matter much in these cases if President-elect Trump makes good on his promise to repeal the Affordable Care Act on his first day in office.But last spring, at the end of the term, the court refused to hear a case from pharmacists who have religious objections to even stocking birth control. The dissenting justices were furious that the court declined to hear the case, contending that this was discrimination on the basis of religion. In the coming years, even without another supreme court seat to fill, watch for religious liberty claims from those who object to marriage equality, abortion, birth control, and other protections for women and LGBTQ Americans, fall prey to these kinds of religious freedom challenges.And you can also expect the reconstituted 5-4 supreme court to take a wrecking ball to President Obama’s environmental protections, just as President-elect Trump promises to reverse any executive actions on that front and withdraw from international agreements. It will also continue John Roberts’ project of dismantling voter protections for minority, young and older voters, ensuring that future elections will proceed on the premise that white Americans have a right to vote and minorities must continue to fight to do so.Certainly it is possible that Justices Ginsburg and Breyer will live for 10 more years, and you can be certain that they are both taking their vitamins after last Tuesday. It is possible, but highly unlikely, that Democrats take the Senate in 2018, making it possible for Democrats to obstruct future Trump nominees. That looks highly unlikely right now, which means that if Trump has even a single appointment in the next four years, everything from Roe to worker protections to controls over policing and the death penalty will be back in the crosshairs.None of this begins to match the importance of four years of Trump judges in the lower federal courts and the federal appeals courts, an area in which President Obama has had a massive impact in recent years, even if it went largely unnoticed by the press and the electorate. Obama has tilted most of the federal appeals court to the left in his eight-year term, and those appointees serve for life. But Obama has also seen 20 of his district court nominees filibustered during his time in office, whereas that had only happened three times in previous administrations. And as a result of Republican obstruction of Obama’s judicial nominations in the Senate, 35 lower courts are sufficiently shorthanded as to be designated “judicial emergencies”. That is up from 12 when Obama took office.In other words, Trump will benefit not only from a Senate controlled by Republicans, but from the eight years of prior Senate obstruction that held up Obama nominees – perfectly qualified and usually moderate – leaving the lower courts and the supreme court short-staffed. In other words, Senate Republicans not only control the playing field, they spent their time in the Senate benching Obama players.President-elect Trump will begin to name his judges in the coming weeks and months. If his shortlist is anything to go by they will make expanding gun rights and contracting reproductive freedoms their priority. America will live with the consequences of those decisions for decades after a Trump presidency is over.President-elect Donald Trump sent conflicting messages about his hopes for the supreme court on Sunday, saying he will appoint justices who will send abortion rights “back to the states” but conceding he was “fine” with marriage equality “because it was already settled”.Trump made the comments in his first broadcast interview as president-elect, with CBS’s 60 Minutes, which aired on Sunday evening.Trump also suggested he might retain parts of Barack Obama’s healthcare reforms, and said that he intends to deport as many as 3 million undocumented migrants with criminal records.The supreme court has had eight members since the death of conservative justice Antonin Scalia in February. Senate Republicans have refused to even consider Obama’s nominee for the seat, Merrick Garland.The vacant seat became a central campaign issue for conservatives, and CBS host Lesley Stahl asked Trump whether he would appoint a supreme court justice who wanted to overturn Roe v Wade, the 1973 case that upheld the right to abortion.“So look,” Trump said. “Here’s what’s going to happen. I’m going to – I’m pro-life. The judges will be pro-life.”Pressed, he said: “Having to do with abortion – if it ever were overturned, it would go back to the states. So it would go back to the states.” That did not mean women would not be able to get an abortion, Trump said, but “they’ll perhaps have to go, they’ll have to go to another state”.“Well, we’ll see what happens,” he added. “It’s got a long way to go, just so you understand. That has a long, long way to go.”In March, Trump suggested that women should face “some form of punishment” for having abortions, before reversing and saying states and Congress should lead lawmaking.Asked by Stahl whether he supported marriage equality, which was made law by the supreme court in Obergefell v Hodges in 2015, Trump suggested the case did not concern him to the degree of Roe v Wade.“It’s irrelevant,” he said, “Because it was already settled. It’s law. It was settled in the supreme court. I mean it’s done.”Trump’s vice-presidential pick, Indiana governor Mike Pence, has opposed same-sex marriage throughout his career, and supported so-called “conversion therapy” programs that purport to change people’s sexual orientation.Pence also signed a religious freedom law that sought to allow people to refuse service to same-sex couples because of religious convictions.Trump, however, said he considered the matter resolved. “These cases have gone to the supreme court,” he said. “They’ve been settled. I’m fine with that.”He was adamant, on the other hand, about gun rights, saying he wanted to stack the supreme court with justices that would defend those rights. “Everybody’s talking about the second amendment and they’re trying to dice it up and change it, they’re going to be very pro-second amendment,” Trump said.Gun advocates last won a major battle in the supreme court in the 2008 case District of Columbia v Heller, which ended with a 5-4 ruling written by Scalia that broadly affirmed the personal right to firearms and overturned a handgun-possession ban in Washington DC.Trump discussed a number of another issues in the CBS interview, including the brutal nature of the election campaign.“Sometimes you have to be rougher,” he said, discussing his behaviour and choice of words in clashes with opponent Hillary Clinton and exchanges with Barack Obama, whom he met at the White House on Thursday, and wish for conciliation now.Asked if he was still planning to appoint a special prosecutor to look into Clinton’s use of a private email server, a threat to which he added possible jail time when he made it in the second debate last month, he said he would “think about it”.The president-elect wanted, he said, to “focus on all of these other things that we’ve been talking about”.Vulnerable witnesses, including children and people with learning difficulties, should not be subject to unnecessarily harsh questioning in court, according to new guidelines developed by the egal profession.A free training programme for advocates in England and Wales who deal with serious sexual offences is being launched by the Bar Council, which represents barristers, the Law Society, which represents solicitors, the Crown Prosecution Service and other legal bodies.The chair of the Bar Council, Chantal-Aimée Doerries QC, said: “Giving evidence can be difficult or intimidating, especially for vulnerable witnesses, and what they have to say is often vital to the outcome of the case.“Using specific techniques for cross-examination helps vulnerable witnesses to feel more secure and means that they are more likely to give their best and most accurate evidence. That is in the interests of the witnesses themselves and the interests of justice.”She added: “Since a ruling in 2015 there has been a clear prohibition on unnecessarily repetitive cross-examination, and in cases involving vulnerable witnesses, the length and nature of cross-examination must be agreed in advance at a hearing.“This training programme takes us a step further by developing less intrusive questioning techniques and adapting them for children and vulnerable adults.”Last year a court ruled that judges could limit cross-examination on the credibility of a complainant in cases where other lawyers had already covered the same ground. It related to a hearing where a woman had been cross-examined for a nearly a week about her past.The issue was also raised after the suicide of Frances Andrade, a professional violinist, four years ago after giving evidence of sexual assault, although her despair was caused by the fear that she had not been believed by the court.Attorneys for Donald Trump have filed a motion to delay until after the presidential inauguration a class-action fraud lawsuit involving the president-elect and his now-defunct Trump University.In the motion filed on Saturday in San Diego federal court, Trump lawyer Daniel Petrocelli argued that the extra months would give both sides time to possibly reach a settlement.The San Diego Union-Tribune reported that Petrocelli had asked to postpone the trial until sometime soon after the 20 January inauguration, to allow Trump to focus on the transition to the White House.“The 69 days until inauguration are critical and all-consuming,” Petrocelli said in the filing, arguing that the president-elect should not be required to stand trial during that time.Petrocelli had said at a hearing in San Diego on Thursday that he would request the delay, though US district judge Gonzalo Curiel, who is overseeing the lawsuit, told lawyers he was not inclined to put off the six-year-old case further and encouraged the parties to settle.The lawsuit involves students who claim they were lured by false promises to pay up to $35,000 to learn Trump’s real estate investing “secrets” from his “hand-picked” instructors.Trump owned 92% of Trump University and had control over all major decisions, the students’ court papers say. The president-elect denies the allegations and has argued that he relied on others to manage the business.The motion also requests that Trump be allowed to be questioned in a videotaped deposition to be recorded before the trial.The lawsuit alleging Trump University failed on its promise to teach success in real estate is scheduled to begin 28 November.Curiel also tentatively rejected last week a bid by the president-elect to keep a wide range of statements from the presidential campaign, which included attacks against Curiel himself, out of the fraud trial.Trump attacked the judge as biased against him. He claimed Curiel, who was born in Indiana but is of Mexican descent, could not be impartial because of Trump’s election campaign pledge to build a wall between the United States and Mexico.Trump’s lawyers have argued that Curiel should bar from the trial accusations about Trump’s personal conduct including alleged sexual misconduct, his taxes and corporate bankruptcies, along with speeches and tweets.Curiel is presiding over two cases against Trump and the university. A separate lawsuit by New York’s attorney general is pending.A cross-party committee of MPs is expected to call for the RSPCA to stop implementing private prosecutions for animal cruelty and instead hand evidence over to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS).The findings from the Commons environment, food and rural affairs committee report is expected to provoke outcry from other animal welfare charities when it is published on Wednesday, according to reports. The RSPCA has been accused of becoming too eager to take people to court.MPs are also expected to recommend a ban on pet shops selling puppies to end the “factory farming” of dogs, the Sunday Times said.In 2014 the charity removed an elderly cat from the home of Richard and Samantha Byrnes after the couple called the charity about their pet. The cat was euthanised the following day by a vet, against the family’s wishes. The RSPCA subsequently tried to prosecute its owners for animal cruelty. It later acknowledged that its intervention in taking the pet cat and treatment of the couple was “disproportionate and insensitive and fell short of the standards of compassion the public are entitled to expect of the RSPCA”.RSPCA’s chief executive, Jeremy Cooper, apologised for the mistakes the group had made earlier this year when he took charge of the charity. Speaking to the Daily Telegraph, Cooper said the organisation was “going to be a lot less political”.“People may have had the perception we were becoming an animal rights organisation. It is not the reality now and it won’t be in the future,” Cooper said.However, he was later accused of giving in to animal rights activists when the RSPCA said it would continue to bring prosecutions.The committee’s report will say the RSPCA should follow the model of its Scottish sister charity, the SSPCA, which hands evidence it has gathered to the procurator fiscal which is the equivalent of the CPS, reported the Sunday Times.“The committee is simply saying that in order for there to be no question of prosecutions being driven by any other motive than public interest, it needs to separate those activities,” one source was cited as saying. “It thinks the only way it can separate those activities is if it hands its prosecutions to the CPS.”Labour MPs who sit on the committee have reportedly opposed the recommendations. The ban on pet shops and other “third party” sales of puppies has been proposed to counter “factory farming” of puppies which can lead to thousands of animals being housed in poor conditions.The source said owners could see with their own eyes the conditions in which the puppies had been reared when buying directly from breeders.There is an ugly story of prison uncleanliness in connection with the imprisonment of suffragettes going about, which demands close inquiry. Mrs Cobden-Sanderson, finding that, though detained in solitary confinement, her cell was very much alive, naturally complained to the prison. In reply she received a pail of water and a brush, with instructions to clean the cell out herself – which she, rightly, declined to do. She explained to the authorities that if it was her duty to keep the cell clean it was not her business to clean it in the first instance; and after some delay the cell was duly cleaned by the proper attendants. A more monstrous indignity to foist upon a lady, who, after all, is a first class political misdemeanant and is only in gaol for an over zealous expression of her honest convictions, it would be difficult to imagine. It is revolting. On every ground, mental, physical and sanitary, prison cells should be kept studiously clean. Who is at the head of the Home Office? Let us talk less about foreign atrocities if so distinguished a lady as Mrs Cobden-Sanderson is treated in one of our first class prisons in so truly Russian and savage a manner.Walter Hartman, the boy who ran away from his home in Hove, and wanted to become a highwayman, was charged at Westminster with highway robbery at Pimlico. The boy snatched a purse from a lady near Eaton Square. Mr Philip Conway, solicitor for the defendant, said he could not, of course, minimise the seriousness of the offence, but it was the direct consequence of the vile literature sold to corrupt the minds of imaginative children.‘A Christian state of society is only possible under Socialism.’In a place whose essence is the passage of time, cell doors are the metronome. Unlocking and locking, creaking and slamming: steel doors provide the soundtrack and the structure to prison life. And when the cell door doesn’t open, when this routine is broken, a shudder of uncertainty runs through the prisoner community.A prison lockdown is staff leaving prisoners locked behind their doors. You may shrug – after all, isn’t that the point of prison? A moment’s thought, though, suggests otherwise. Prisoners need to be unlocked to be fed. To move to work. To attend education. To see the doctor, governor, probation officer … cell doors are flung open with regularity. Without unlocking, everything stops.You wake. You wait. Time passes by, and yet you hear no movement. Cells are not being unlocked. This is the only warning of a lockdown. And so you sit. And wait. As time passes, you may begin to worry. Will domestic visits be cancelled? Have families crossed the country to be turned away? Will mail be delivered? Will letters be sent? Lunchtime arrives. Doors must unlock: people must be fed. On a lockdown, this is done with a “controlled unlock”, a handful of prisoners at a time. Do you know how long it takes to feed hundreds of men, when only five at a time are unlocked?A few hours locked down can provide some relief, an escape from other obligations. As the day progresses, and the prison remains silent, tensions can grow.It may be seemingly little things, such as being short of tobacco. It may be large things, such as not being unlocked in the evening to telephone home to a partner sitting patiently by their landline.To lockdown a prison is to increase exponentially the pressure on prisoners. And sometimes pressure must find some release. Lockdowns are dangerous, and to use them as a management tool in time of crisis only reveals desperation.Ben Gunn was a prisoner in Dartmoor, Bristol and Birmingham jailsChange announced two years ago to go ahead next month, adding 3 million people to available pool of jurorsA dozen of the country’s jails now have such chronic staff shortages they are having to draft in officers from other prisons to help maintain order.The staff shortage has forced some jails into locking prisoners in their cells for extended periods, especially at weekends. Anger at the time they were spending in their cells was cited as a major factor behind last weekend’s riot at Bedford prison. The shortages are also a significant factor in the rise in prison suicides, according to experts.On Saturday it was confirmed that 99 people have taken their lives this year in prisons in England and Wales. “This year has seen the highest number of self-inflicted deaths in prison on record,” said Deborah Coles, director of Inquest, the charity that monitors deaths in custody. “This unacceptable death toll reflects the desperate reality of overcrowded, dehumanising and violent prison conditions and the failure of prisons to protect those in their care.”The Prison Officers’ Association (POA) said that the National Offender Management Service, which oversees the country’s prisons, has classed 12 jails as “red sites”, meaning they do not have enough staff to operate a standard regime. A similar number are classed as “amber sites”, indicating they are also suffering acute staffing issues. The POA told the Observer it estimated around 35% of the country’s prisons were experiencing some form of staffing problem.HMP Isis in south-east London had to introduce a restricted emergency regime in response to staff shortages three years ago. The prisons inspectorate called for the temporary arrangement to be scrapped in 2014. But a report by the inspectorate last month noted that it was still in place.“Between 34% and 44% of prisoners were locked in their cells during the working day and some prisoners had as little as one hour a day out of cell. The two house blocks shared access to work and education facilities, meaning that at any one time only up to half of the young prisoners were doing anything useful … Another area of significant concern was the safety of prisoners.”Concerns about safety in the country’s prisons are mounting. Last month specialist officers had to be brought in after prisoners “went on the rampage” at Lewes prison in Sussex, another red site. A “mini-riot” at HMP Exeter earlier this month saw a member of staff held hostage. In August, disturbances were reported at Birmingham jail. The following month an officer at Lincoln was reportedly taken hostage and beaten after a riot broke out.Pentonville in London, from which two prisoners escaped last week, has also been plagued by problems. Last month, a prisoner died after being stabbed at the jail. The POA told the Observer that since then there had been a further six attacks – all carried out with weapons made from razor blades – on the same wing.Dave Todd, national representative with the POA, said a common picture was emerging. He said: “There aren’t any staff to give prisoners any meaningful regimes, so when they get out [of their cells] they want to stay out. They may get out for an hour per day at weekends but then they’re back in their cells. You’ve got a lot of prisons that are classed as red sites – certain prisons that have got real issues haven’t got enough staff in post to deliver [a] full regime. A lot of the time they’re getting surplus staff from other jails, but even that is not enough.”Todd warned staff were becoming burned out. More prison officers are now leaving the service than are being recruited as morale plummets. Figures just published by the Ministry of Justice show that in the past year the number of full-time prison officers has dropped by almost 600.“Liz Truss [the justice secretary] has promised 2,500 new officers, but that’s probably what they’ve taken out in the last three years – it’s made all prisons unsafe,” Todd said. “In some prisons you are starting on £19,000 a year. No offence to Tesco, but you’d probably get a better wage working in its stores than some prisons.”He described an increasingly violent culture within the country’s jails. “Many have gang issues. Prisoners end up in debt after using new psychoactive substances such as spice. If they don’t pay for it, the dealers will take retribution and usually that’s in physical harm. We’ve got drones dropping drugs off. We’ve got old Victorian prisons where you can get access to the prison wall from a public footpath and throw things over.”But the source of all the problems was fundamentally a lack of staff, he suggested. “We haven’t got enough to effect a decent searching strategy. We used to search a cell once every month, but we don’t do that any more. It’s all intelligence-led now. It’s reaction rather than proaction. If you look up and down the country, where there’s a lack of staff then there’s a lack of regime and then there is violence and self-harm.”Official figures show that there are 65 assaults a day in the country’s jails and an average of two suicides a week.Frances Crook, chief executive of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: “Prisons across the country are struggling to deal with a toxic mix of problems – a growing population, chronic overcrowding and deep cuts to staffing. Without enough staff to keep people safe, prisons are increasingly providing restricted regimes, under which prisoners are locked in their cells for up to 23 hours a day.“Lockdowns mean that men who could be in education or training, learning skills to help them lead crime-free lives on release, are spending their sentences lying on their bunks. Worse, the restrictions can spark violence, self-injury and disturbances, such as the riot in Bedford prison.”The Prison Service said: “We have announced a major shake-up of the prison system, with 2,500 extra prison officers and new security measures to tackle drones, phones and drugs and help make prisons places of safety and reform. The justice secretary has always been clear that it will take time to address these longstanding problems and we must grip the real challenges and risks that we face in the shorter term.”John Attard, national officer with the Prison Governors’ Association, said the closure of 13 prisons under the current government had exacerbated overcrowding pressures. “For the last two years, the PGA have been saying that references to drones, phones and spice were to some degree a convenient excuse that drew attention away from the issues of staffing. The bottom line is many prisons have not got enough officers.”Pensioners will be liable for jury service until the age of 75 from next month – a change that reflects improved life expectancy.The rise in the upper age limit for jurors, from 70 now, will enable more people in retirement to participate in their civic duty and spread the load of the jury system.The Ministry of Justice’s intention to increase the age limit by five years was first announced two years ago. It will now come into force on 1 December.About 178,000 people between the ages of 18 and 70 in England and Wales do jury service each year. Another 3 million people will be added to the available pool of jurors by raising the age limit; up to 6,000 older pensioners are likely to be called to sit on a jury each year.Anyone selected for jury service may apply to be excused if they feel incapable of carrying out their duties. This is the first change to jury ages since 1988, when it was raised from 65 to 70.The justice minister, Sir Oliver Heald QC, said: “Trial by jury is a fundamental part of our world-leading justice system and it is important that our juries reflect today’s society. People are living longer, healthier lives, so it is right that our courts are able to benefit from the wisdom and experience that older people can offer.”Jane Ashcroft, chief executive of older people’s charity Anchor, said: “Older people already contribute a great deal to society and represent an integral part of any local community. The knowledge and experience of older people is invaluable, and I’m pleased that more will now be able to share their wisdom by contributing to the criminal justice system.”Sarah Rochira, Older People’s Commissioner for Wales, said: “This positive step will help to challenge negative assumptions about older people and will mean they can make an even greater contribution to society. I have no doubt that our court system will benefit greatly from the wealth of knowledge and experience they will offer.”The failure of employers in elite professions such as law and the media to stop using unpaid interns in the face of warnings must be met with a ban on the “unfair” practice, the government’s social mobility commission will recommend this week.The most sought-after professions have become even less representative than the most selective universities, with jobs in effect closed off to those without a network of contacts and significant financial support. Only 4% of doctors, 6% of barristers, 11% of journalists and 12% of solicitors have working-class origins, according to recent research by the London School of Economics using Labour Force Survey data. In its end-of-year report to parliament, the commission warns that Britain remains “a deeply elitist nation where the chance of getting a well-paid job in a top profession is still strongly correlated with social background”.It adds: “It is time to treat internships as part of the formal, not informal, labour market. In our 2014 state of the nation report we said that unless we found evidence that the employers were taking action to end the unfair activity of unpaid internships, the government should bring forward legislation to ban them.“Unfortunately, we have been able to find little such evidence. As a result, the commission believes it is high time that internships are defined in law and unpaid internships banned.“Any work placements that last more than four weeks should be classified as internships and those doing them should receive at least the minimum wage.”Internships ranging from a few weeks to a year or more have become a prerequisite for access to the professions, the commission will claim.The vast majority of internships are said to be in London, where the cost of living is highest. With the average cost of renting a room in London £743 a month and a monthly travel card more than £100, an internship can cost more than £1,000 a month to fund.“The damaging impact of unpaid internships on social mobility cannot be overstated,” the commission’s report will say. “Young people without financial support from their parents are effectively excluded due to means not merit and potentially locked out from sought-after careers entirely.”The commission, chaired by the former Labour cabinet minister Alan Milburn, finds that people from working-class backgrounds – even high attainers – are less likely to secure such jobs because they have “less access to networks and knowledge to navigate the system than their more affluent peers”.The proportion of those in elite occupations coming from non-professional or managerial backgrounds was only four percentage points greater (50%) in 2014 than it was in 2005.Just over three years after graduating in 2010-11, those from the most disadvantaged backgrounds were 11% less likely to be in professional employment than those from the most advantaged.People whose parents worked in higher managerial and professional occupations make up only 14.7% of the population, but 27.2% of them end up in those occupations. Conversely, those with parents who worked in routine or semi-routine employment form 31.7% of the population, but only 17% of those who end up in top jobs.The commission, whose deputy chair is former Tory cabinet minister Baroness (Gillian) Shephard, welcomes new recruitment processes brought in by some employers, such as looking beyond high academic results, lowering or removing Ucas points for graduate entry and introducing “CV blind” interviews.But it finds that the medical profession has “found it much harder to open up … to those from disadvantaged backgrounds. Others, like the Bar, risk becoming even more socially exclusive”. The report adds: “In the arts and media, the dramatic rise in unpaid internships and practice of securing work experience through contacts is closing off these careers to all but those from privileged backgrounds.”Nearly half of the recruiters who took part in the High Fliers 2016 graduate labour market survey stated that graduates with no previous work experience would have little or no chance of receiving a job offer from their organisation.According to the same research, 32% of new entrants are recruited by top graduate recruiters from internship programmes; in banking, it is as high as nearly 80% of the graduate intake.Theresa May has claimed that tackling social inequalities is a priority and has criticised the current situation where: “If you’re at a state school, you’re less likely to reach the top professions than if you are educated privately.”The new prime minister’s cabinet has the lowest proportion of ministers who went to private school in more than 70 years, with 70% state-educated.However, the report says that evidence from some firms lays bare that real progress will only be made if leading employers radically reform recruitment practices.The commission in partnership with the Social Mobility Foundation has launched a Social Mobility Employer Index which will benchmark firms’ efforts in areas such as recruitment, selection and progression.The report says that the index will be run with the aim of “encouraging employers to compete to recruit, and to keep, the best and brightest candidates from lower socioeconomic backgrounds”, but denies that it is seeking to name and shame the worst performers. The final rankings will be announced in the spring.Government lawyers are exploring the possibility of arguing in the supreme court that the article 50 process could be reversed by parliament at any time before the UK completes its exit from the European Union.Prominent academic experts have told the Guardian they know the government’s legal team has sounded out lawyers about the potential change of tack, which some argue would lead to a victory in the case brought by Gina Miller and other campaigners.Prof Takis Tridimas, an expert in EU law at King’s College London, said: “I know that the issue of revocation is a live issue in terms of the supreme court hearing.” He had heard that the government had commissioned research on the subject, he said.Earlier this month, the high court ruled that the government could only invoke article 50, which begins the EU exit process, through a parliamentary vote. The case was decided on the basis that, once article 50 was triggered it was irreversible and British citizens would inevitably lose rights granted through the 1972 European Communities Act.Royal prerogative powers – the government’s executive authority – cannot be used to repeal rights granted by parliament, the three high court judges concluded in their ruling, which was sharply criticised by several tabloid newspapers, including the Daily Mail which described the judges as “Enemies of the People”.If the government argued that MPs could vote to revoke article 50 during the exit negotiation period, some academics say, the outcome of the government’s appeal to the supreme court would be different, because it would imply that the sovereignty of parliament had not been removed.Dr Eirik Bjorge, a senior law lecturer at Bristol University and an expert in EU law, said: “If the government decides to – and is allowed to – argue that the article 50 notice can be revoked, then it is all but sure to win in the supreme court. In those circumstances it cannot be said that, once the trigger has been pulled, the bullet will inexorably hit the target and expunge our rights under the European Communities Act 1972.”Tridimas is one of those who believes the article 50 process could be reversed before the UK’s exit from the EU had been completed. “My view is that it is reversible,” he said. “There’s nothing in the wording of article 50 which says that it cannot be withdrawn. The Vienna convention on the law of treaties says that they can be reversed unless they state otherwise. The point of no return is two years after notification has been given [to the EU].”Prof Paul Craig, an Oxford University expert on both EU and constitutional law, said the triggering of article 50 should be revocable by parliament. “It is a cardinal legal principle that a party is not bound by a contract or treaty until agreement has been reached,” he has argued in a blogpost. “The consequences of not being able to revoke would be particularly severe: withdrawal would have to proceed even if invocation of article 50 triggered an economic meltdown in the country.”However, Craig said, enabling parliament to give its approval at an early stage might have dangerous consequences for democracy later on: “There is a deeper paradox in this litigation.” He said the claimants, who he said would like Britain to remain in the EU, were “willing to risk everything for some parliamentary voice at the trigger stage”, but this could result in a decisive parliamentary vote to invoke article 50, which would be difficult to undo subsequently.“The government wishes to exit the EU. It conceded the article 50 point knowing that it might then lose the immediate battle, and would therefore have to seek parliamentary approval, but was confident enough that this would be forthcoming, and that thereafter the war was won, since the triggering, once done, was irrevocable.”The government has already submitted its initial grounds for appeal at the supreme court. The papers do not indicate any shift of emphasis so far in the way the case will be presented, although it is possible that could change before the hearing in December.A government spokesman said: “Our position is clear: the country voted to leave the EU and we will respect the will of the British people. The government told the high court that as a matter of firm policy, once given, the article 50 notice would not be withdrawn. Because legal proceedings are under way it would not be appropriate to comment further.”Court of appeal upholds decision to keep Oxford mother's child in careAs leader of the Liberal Democrats, I have been clear that what started with democracy in June cannot end with a stitch-up. The government is determined to prevent any scrutiny of its plans, cook up a deal between Brussels and Westminster bureaucrats and foist it upon the country – a plan that no one will have voted for.People are clearly worried about the government’s plans. No one has an idea of even its vaguest intention. For example, will it try to keep Britain in the single market, which is crucial to our economy?It does not matter which side of this debate you were on. Whether you voted leave or remain, you deserve the right to have a say on what happens next, and the Lib Dems will fight to give that to you.That’s why, unless the government backs our plan to give the public a say, we will vote against triggering article 50. We want a guarantee that there will be a referendum on the deal at the end of the negotiations, when people can vote for that deal or to remain in Europe.To those who say that our plans are undemocratic, I say: what could be more democratic than giving people a vote?David Cameron’s government did not lay out plans for what Brexit would look like. The various leave campaigns did not set out one plan for what Brexit would look like. The leave campaign during the referendum set out plans for spending another £350m a week on the NHS, in the event of Brexit – which Theresa May has now admitted won’t happen.May did not set out plans in her leadership campaign for what Brexit would look like. She has not been elected as prime minister on the basis of any plans at all, let alone about Brexit. The government to this day has not even given the lightest pencil-sketch of an idea of what Brexit would look like. And on top of all that, it is appealing against a high court ruling in order to stop MPs having any scrutiny on the direction Brexit takes – whatever that may be.Since nobody has set out what Brexit would look like, and nobody – neither MPs nor the public – has had a say on what should come next, how is it undemocratic to demand that people should be given a say? Those who want to railroad through a plan without guaranteeing the people a say are the ones pursuing an undemocratic path.The referendum starkly divided our country – 52% of people voted to leave, 48% to remain. We all must have a say on our next step.This Conservative-Brexit government seems to have set off along a path that could lead to “hard Brexit”, which would cost Britain dearly. That is why Lib Dems will also seek to amend the government’s plans to ensure membership of the single market becomes part of its negotiation plans.The single market is a British invention that creates the framework in which tariff-free trade is conducted, and is crucial for jobs, investment and planning.I believe the government cannot come back with a Brexit deal that is better than our membership. That is why my party campaigned for a remain vote. But when that deal is done, whatever it looks like, it should be put to a referendum.Too much of Cameron’s handling of this issue was trying to unite a divided Conservative party. It is now critical that the government puts aside narrow party interest.For these reasons, the only circumstances in which the Lib Dems could vote for article 50 is if any such vote includes an explicit guarantee to put the direction of Brexit back into the hands of the people through a referendum on the deal. We trusted people to vote for departure. Now we must also trust people to vote for a destination.Privacy activists, human rights campaigners and former US security officials have expressed fears over the prospect of Donald Trump controlling the vast global US and UK surveillance network.They critic