John Widner
Persuasive Speech outline: Ageism 
Discourse III 

Thesis It benefits society when we encourage the older population to retrain with more current technology. 
Introduction
The world is changing, populations are changing, science is changing, basically everything is changing. As technology and medical science has extended our lives and our mental capacity, the aging population has become an untapped resource. Rapid expansion of the tech and software engineering market have inspired many members of our society to return to higher education. It can be difficult to acclimate to the student life while maintaining a family and a career.
Points
First, respect for all regardless of race, gender, sexual identity, or age.
Second, utilizing the minds of the mature workforce will only boots the country.
Third, giving mature students different opportunities help them succeed. 
Point 1
All people should be treated with respect regardless of race, gender, sexual identity, OR age. So, let’s jump right in with some statistics.
Quote Luo et al. “72% of American elders and 68% of Canadian elders reported some level of personal or institutional discrimination.” and “Ageist attitudes, internalized by an older person, can have a detrimental effect on the physical and psychological wellbeing of the individual, which includes but is not limited to self-prejudice, low self-esteem, depression, or even suicide”.
If we marginalize this portion of the population, we are shorting the brain-trust of the United States of America. Youth isn’t a requirement for university, nut it’s often an assumption.
Quote Hagestad and Uhlenberg “Institutional age segregation occurs when the principles and norms that define a social institution include chronological age as an eligibility criterion for participation.” 
Transition: Why push that population down when the benefits of lifting them up are so great?
Point 2
If we enable these aging students to retrain and reeducate, we could greatly increase productivity in this country.
Quote Anxiety, outcome expectations, and young people’s willingness to engage in contact with the elderly. Hutchison, Fox, Laas, Matharu, and Urzi. “The developing world is currently experiencing a significant shift toward greater numbers of older people relative to younger people as average life expectancy increases and birth rates decrease. (Help the Aged, 2009). This historically unprecedented shift is occurring against the background of research suggesting that ageism is the most common form of prejudice.”

They ageing population is already in the job market, wasting away delivering pizzas and greeting you at Walmart.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics in December of 2013 projected that the percentage of people over the age of 55 will increase by 28.8%. The increase between 2002 and 2012 which was 56.1%.
Point 3
	Mature students have different needs and skills. 
Quote Rosowsky “The manifestation of ageism can be seen in any number of discriminatory behaviors that reflect the negative stereotyping of older adults, and these behaviors induce systematic disadvantages”
Scheduling can be a big hurdle for students that have a full-time job as well as a family. Most 300 and 400 level classes, at least in my field of IT only have a single class per semester and often not offered in the summer
The Mary Story, there has to be a better way.
Conclusion:
	In conclusion… We should treat all people with respect regardless of any superficial aspect. Utilizing the minds of a larger portion of the population can only result in more productivity and social strength. Older segments of the population have different education needs and skills that would be beneficial to consider. America is falling behind in engineering. We need to mobilize the intellect if the population. The issue of Ageism needs to be dealt with by the young before they get old. These issues concern us all. Sure, most of you are young now, but time keeps ticking my friends. Better to deal with the issue now while you are young and people will listen to you.
